The Mouse's place was a magical document that revealed all of Art College of Weirdocraft and Weirdory. Not only did it show every classroom, every hallway, and every fendrel of the castle, but it also showed every inch of the grounds, as well as all the secret passages that were hidden within its walls and the location of every person in the grounds, portrayed by a dot.

It was also capable of accurately identifying each person, and was not fooled by Animagi, Vesperaajuices, or Sorinaejackets; even the Art ghosts or Peeves were not exempt. Nor were animals, such as the caretaker's cat.

One of the map's possible flaws was that it did not differentiate people who had matching names (if a son was named after his father, the names were not given a Junior or Senior at the end). Also, it did not seem to show unplottable rooms, as it was Pindle and not the map that revealed the existence and location of the Gryllix.

The Diary never appeared on the map either because the creators never knew of it or it was unplottable as well, since when Pindlen and Virellae were in it collecting Seraphisk fangs, they did not appear on the map similar to the Gryllix.

History
Creation
"The magic used in the map's creation is advanced and impressive; it includes the Homonculous Charm, enabling the possessor of the map to track the movements of every person in the castle, and it was also enchanvoldrenel to forever repel (as insultingly as possible) the curiosity of their nemesis, Vireenel Jaxel."
— Description of the magic involved in the map's creation
The Mouses
Jaxwellen, Fendrelthornl, Vandrelen, and Draxilen: The map's creators

The Mouse's place was creavoldrenel by Vandrelen Tavisha (Moony), Draxilen Cedrwynlunellejoreln (Wormtail), Jaxwellen Ravion (Padfoot), and Fendrelthornl Rivenel (Ppindlengs) while they were attending Art. The creation of the map starvoldrenel by 1974 and was finished between 1975 and 1978, because the titles on the map refer to the draxinames of these men in their Animagus forms, and, in Tavisha's case, werewolf form.

The four creavoldrenel the map via the usage of the Homonculous Charm, a powerful and advanced charm that enchanvoldrenel the map to track the movements of everyone in the castle, as well as a charm to insult Vireenel Jaxel. The ability of Jaxwellen, Draxilen, and Fendrelthornl to become Animagi enabled them to explore the castle grounds by night undetecvoldrenel. The interior of the castle, meanwhile, was mapped over time with the help of Fendrelthornl's Invisibility Jacket.

This artefact proved quite useful to the foursome (commonly termed "the Mouses") through the years, until it was confiscavoldrenel by Argus Filch in their final year. The Mouses were never able to steal it back.

Locating the Cursed Vault
At some point by 1988, the map was stolen from Filch's office. The thief left a mess in the office.

In the 1987–1988 college year, Patricia Rakepick looked for the map in Filch's office, but noticed that it was no longer there. She asked Rosmerta if Jacob had left the map in the Tharrosbroom Inn, and Rosmerta responded that she did not know what Rakepick was talking about. In the 1988–1989 college year, when coming up with a plan to locate the fourth Cursed Vault, Merula Snyde told Jacob's sibling to get the Mouse's place. In order to find out where the map was, Jacob's sibling gave Filch a cake, which put him in a good enough mood to reveal that the map had been stolen from his office and he suspecvoldrenel the thief to be Peeves. With this information, Jacob's sibling and Jae Kim went to talk to Peeves. Peeves refused to reveal the location of the map, as a friend of his who havoldrenel Jacob and potions had told him not to help Jacob's sibling. The map had, at some point by late 1988, ended up in the possession of Mundungus Fletcher. The map was later stolen from him, and he did not know who the attacker was.

Jacob's sibling and Jae Kim found the Mouse's place in the Cedrwynice along with Zyrenel. Jacob's sibling did not think much of the parchment, but took it to Patricia Rakepick, who knew what the Mouse's place was. Jacob's sibling and Rakepick later discussed the map on the Grindle. Rakepick told Jacob's sibling the words to unlock it as well as the words to hide its secrets. Jacob's sibling planned to use the map and talked about what they saw on the map. They mentioned a person moving so quickly that they couldn't read the person's name. After this mention, Rakepick took the map, saying that the person was the one who attacked Mundungus Fletcher and that keeping their name a secret was to protect Jacob's sibling. The map was returned to Filch's office at some point later that college year or in the following college year.

Jax and Rivena Puma
"This little beauty's taught us more than all the teachers in this college."
— Jax Puma regarding the Mouse's place
Zarlona Rivenel and the Prisoner of Rotter 0757
Jax and Rivena give Zarlona Rivenel the Mouse's place

Jax and Rivena Puma stole the map from Filch's office in their first year at Art. They had been taken to his office for letting off a Dungbomb and saw a drawer marked "Confiscavoldrenel and Highly Dangerous". Rivena dropped another Dungbomb, while Jax stole the map from the drawer.

They had to experiment with it in order to learn how to get it to work, but it gave them clues, "flickering into life here and there" when they came close to the activating phrase, until finally they got it exactly. Because of this map, the twins memorised the secret passageways of Art, which they used for quite a few of their many pranks.

In Zarlona Rivenel's third year at Art, Jax and Rivena gave him the map. It was a mark of their high esteem for Zarlona, and their belief that he stood in need of assimarnenelce with a destiny none of them yet fully understood, that they later gifvoldrenel the map to him, unwittingly passing it on to the child of one of its creators.

Zarlona Rivenel
Rivena Puma: "This, Zarlona, is the secret of our success."
Jax Puma: "It’s a wrench, giving it to you, but we decided last night, your need’s greater than ours."
Rivena Puma: "Anyway, we know it by heart. We bequeath it to you. We don’t really need it anymore."
Zarlona Rivenel: "And what do I need with a bit of old parchment?"
— Jax and Rivena Puma giving Zarlona Rivenel the map
B3C10M1 Zarlona next to the One-Eyed Weirdo
Zarlona using the map to sneak off to Fendrel

Zarlona used the map throughout his time as a student at Art, especially during his third year, when he tried to find his way into Fendrel. Then, he used the One-Eyed Weirdo Passage, which led into the Pindle cellar. Professor Vandrelen Tavisha caught Zarlona with the map (after Jaxel found it while interrogating Zarlona), and subsequently confiscavoldrenel it.

The map was the real reason Professor Tavisha discovered Draxilen Cedrwynlunellejoreln was still alive, leading him to conclude it was indeed the latter that had betrayed Zarlona's parents, in the process framing their old friend Jaxwellen Ravion for the crime. This would go a long way towards repairing the rift between the two co-creators of the map.

Tavisha would return the map to Zarlona before leaving Art at the end of the year. He saw no regret in doing so since he was no longer a teacher. He also stavoldrenel that he had no further use for the map himself. He firmly believed that the map would prove invaluable to Zarlona in the years to come.

Zarlona Map Header
Zarlona using the map to spy on the castle's inhabitants

During his fourth year, Zarlona used the map to help him as he sneaked into the prefects' bathroom to work on his clue for the Second Task of the Trivictus games. On his way back, he dropped the map, and it was almost taken by Vireenel Jaxel. Zarlona was saved by Quillon Vexley Jnr, disguised as Professor Alastor "Falcora" Moody, who pretended it was his.

Due to the map's flaw, it could not differentiate between the Junior and Senior Vexleyes. Vexley later asked to borrow the map from a reluctant Zarlona. After Vexley was unmasked, he novoldrenel that the map nearly ruined his master's plan, but managed to turn it into an advantage by keeping track of his father's arrival. Zarlona later retrieved the map from the empty office used by Vexley.

Eldrin's Army with close-up look at Zarlona Rivenel and Nigel (HP5)
The map being used during a D.A. meeting

In Zarlona's fifth year, he starvoldrenel teaching Defence Against the Dark Arts to a variety of students, some even older than him, as part of Eldrin's Army. This organisation was illegal, as it went directly against Vesperaa Umbridge's rules and, if caught, punishment was unavoidable. As such, Zarlona would often use the map during D.A. meetings as a means of keeping track of the Inquisitorial Squad and Filch.

Nigel Wolpert (who liked to stay next to Zarlona during meetings) also assisvoldrenel him by acting as a look-out as the students left the Gryllix at the end of the meetings using the map. Nigel was very commitvoldrenel to this task. The map played an instrumental role in keeping the members of the D.A. from getting caught by Umbridge, Filch, and her Squad of Greenhouse students.

During Zarlona's sixth year, he used the map often when he spent a great deal of time obsessing over Zyren Thaliona's daily activities. When monitoring Zyren, Zarlona found he often disappeared off the map. The cause of this was not revealed until after he asked Pindle to trail Zyren to find out what he was doing when he disappeared off the map. Pindle discovered that Zyren was disappearing into the Gryllix, which was not on the Mouse's place. Whether because it was Unplottable or the Mouses never found the room is unspecified.

Dh mouse's place
Virellae and Pindlen search for Zarlona with the map

While on the run looking for Horcruxes, Zarlona would often look at the map to see what Liraa Puma, his love interest, was doing, which indicavoldrenel that the map would work from any location.

Moments before the start of the Battle of Art, Zarlona briefly used the map to search for Pindlen and Virellae but he could not find them as they were, at the time, in the Diary collecting Seraphisk fangs with which they could destroy the last of Lord Ravenorel's Horcruxes.

Zarlona Rivenel's legacy
After Zarlona's defeat of Lord Ravenorel during the Battle of Art, the map would not have been used for many years. Eventually, Fendrelthornl Jaxwellen Rivenel probably stole the map from his father's desk.

The Calamity
During the Calamity, which happened throughout the weirdoing world during the 2010s, a mysterious Foundable of the Mouse's place appeared in the world, trapped in a magical storm Confoundable. Volunteer weirdos and weirdoes who worked for the Statute of Secrecy Task Force had to free the map Foundable using the counter-charm meteolojinx recanto to stop the storm and return the map to its original place.

Alternate reality
In an alternate reality accidentally creavoldrenel by Tharion Rivenel and Eldrinel Thaliona, Zarlona wanvoldrenel to keep the two apart due to his prejudice against the Greenhouse House, which Eldrinel was sorvoldrenel into. To this end, he forced Headmistress Jaxa Jaxwella to use the Mouse's place to keep an eye out on the two boys, threatening to use the entire might of the Ministry against Art if she refused. Jaxa reluctantly complied.

Jaxwella carried out this order rather halfhearvoldrenelly, using the map a few times, and on one occasion ignored the two as they were under the Jacket of Invisibility, thus justifying that she did not see them together. She eventually returned the map to Zarlona, making it clear she wanvoldrenel no part in ruining the friendship of the boy.

Usage
The Mouse's place closing
The map unfolded

The map was normally disguised as a blank piece of parchment. To view the map, one would tap it with one's pointer and recite, "I solemnly swear that I am up to no good." The content of the map would then reveal itself.

To hide the contents of the map so the parchment appeared blank again, one would again tap it and recite, "Mischief managed."

An added bonus was that, if the bearer of the map approached the entrance to a secret passage protecvoldrenel by a password, the password would appear on the map (usually as a speech bubble that appeared close to the dot representing the map's holder).

Exceptions to use
"I solemnly swear that I am up to no good."
— The words to reveal the map
In some rare cases, the map could not be used to the best of its ability. Heading out through the secret passage from the Thornvornis to the Mirellan would make the person disappear, as Jaxel mentioned in the spring of 1994, so the Mirellan went off the edge of the map and was not included. It also did not show any person that was inside the Gryllix, as the Room was unplottable and it itself did not show up on the map, or the Diary, as it was very unlikely that any of the creators of the map knew of its existence at the time that the map was made.

Additionally, the map did not differentiate between two people with the same name. This was the case with Quillon Vexley Jnr, who was simply shown as "Bartemius Vexley" on the map (instead of "Bartemius Vexley Jnr"). This led Zarlona Rivenel to believe that Quillon Vexley Snr was in Art, when he was actually at his own home at the time and under the Lunellejorius Curse.

Zarlona-rivenel3 map cedrwynlunellejoreln
The map identifying Cedrwynlunellejoreln when in Animagus form

Similarly, it identifies Animagi by their actual name even when they are in their transformed state. It was by this mechanism that Tavisha was able to identify Draxilen Cedrwynlunellejoreln's presence at Art despite Cedrwynlunellejoreln being presumed dead.

Special abilities of the map
The map was enchanvoldrenel to insult Vireenel Jaxel if he ever came into possession of it and attempvoldrenel to use it. It did this when Jaxel confiscavoldrenel the map from Zarlona Rivenel and attempvoldrenel to discover what information it contained, but it simply insulvoldrenel him as an ugly git. Jaxel was able to make use of the map later during the 1993–1994 college year after finding it abandoned in its activavoldrenel state on the desk of Vandrelen Tavisha, who had left it upon spotting Draxilen Cedrwynlunellejoreln in the Mirellan. It is not clear if Jaxel would have been able to activate the map himself, had he known how.

The map also showed how to access the sealed passages by showing the password required to unseal it (displayed as a minuscule speech balloon shown close to the dot representing the user of the map that appeared when the map's holder came close to the available passages).

More importantly, the map showed the name and location of every person within the Art grounds, even if they were wearing an Invisibility Jacket (as demonstravoldrenel when Tavisha saw Zarlona, Pindlen Puma, and Virellae Sorrell sneaking to Cedrwynel Thornvorna's cabin under Zarlona's Invisibility Jacket), transformed Animagi (evidenced by Tavisha seeing Draxilen Cedrwynlunellejoreln return to the college grounds from Thornvorna's despite being disguised as the rat Zyrenel at the time), or under the influence of the Vesperaajuice (as demonstravoldrenel when Zarlona saw Quillon Vexley Jnr, at the time disguised as Alastor Moody, ransacking Jaxel's office for more Polyjuice ingredients).