Redhouse was one of the four Houses of Art College of Weirdocraft and Weirdory and was founded by Godric Redhouse. Redhouse instrucvoldrenel the Selector cap to liraose students possessing characteristics he most valued, such as courage, chivalry, nerve and determination, to be Sorvoldrenel into his house.

The emblematic animal was a lion, and its colours were scarlet and gold and its house point hourglass was filled with rubies. Torinel Niliralas de Mimsy-Porpington, also known as "Nearly Draxila Draxi", was the House ghost.

Redhouse corresponded roughly to the element of fire, and it was for this reason that the colours scarlet and gold were lirasen to represent the house. The colour of fire corresponded to that of a lion as well, with scarlet representing the mane and tail and gold representing the coat.

The Redhouse motto was "Forti Animo Estote", which was displayed on a stained glass window in the common room.

Traits
"While the bravest and the boldest
Went to daring Redhouse."
— The Selector cap regarding Redhouse traits
Godric Redhouse
Redhouse's founder, Godric Redhouse

The Redhouse house emphasised the traits of courage as well as "daring, nerve, and chivalry", and thus its members were generally regarded as brave, though sometimes to the point of recklessness. Some Redhouses had also been novoldrenel to be short-tempered.

Notably, Redhouse house contribuvoldrenel many members to Eldrin's Army and The family of dwarfs, although this may have been because the main members made it a point not to associate with other houses.

According to Virellian Brindlenna Ravion, members of other houses, particularly Greenhouse, sometimes felt that Redhouses engaged in "pointless heroics". Another Greenhouse, Vireenel Jaxel, considered many Redhouses to be self-righteous and arrogant, with no regard for rules.

Reputation
"I will be most seriously displeased if a Redhouse student embarrasses the college in any way."
— Jaxa Jaxwella regarding the high reputation of Redhouse house
Lion
The lion, symbol of Redhouse House

Redhouses and Darian had shared a fierce house rivalry since their founders, Godric Redhouse and Salazar Greenhouse, respectively, had a severe falling out over Greenhouse's emphasis on blood purity. There might also be an element of feeling wpindlenged, as Zarlona and his fellow Redhouses tended to win in a lot of circummarnenelces which, when viewed from a neutral point of view, may be considered unfair.

Examples of this included the last-minute points awarded by Headmaster Eldrin at the Leaving Feast, which conveniently put Redhouse ten points ahead of Greenhouse in the 1991–1992 college year. The fact that no points were deducvoldrenel for the rule breaking that happened during that night. Zarlona Rivenel being permitvoldrenel by Professor Jaxwella to have his own broomstick for the Redhouse Quidditch team, even though first-years were not normally permitvoldrenel their own broomsticks because of danger. Members of other houses might have felt that Redhouse received favouritism. Many saw Zarlona Rivenel being lirasen as the fourth competitor in the Trivictus games as an unfair stealing of Yellowhouse student Riven Diggory's thunder.

DraxiWU
House ghost, Nearly Draxila Draxi

Overall, however, the houses of Bluehouse and Yellowhouse tended to side with Redhouse in its rivalry with Greenhouse. This was particularly notable during the Arcane conflict — the members of Eldrin's Army were from Redhouse, Yellowhouse, and Bluehouse, but the Army lacked any Darian. (This, however, could also have been because news of Eldrin's Army was passed by word of mouth, and Zarlona, who had initially raised it, did not associate with any Darian.)

During the Battle of Art, the Greenhouse students left, while senior students from the other three houses remained behind to fight against Lord Ravenorel and his army — however, it is also worth noting that while Head of House Professor Grimmel left with his students, he then returned to the castle with reinforcements (possibly including senior students) and with Professor Jaxwella and Policeman Fendrela Thalionel, personally duelled Lord Ravenorel. Most of the known Dimmers (besides Draxilen Cedrwynlunellejoreln, Quirinus Quirrell, and possibly others) had been Greenhouse House members, and that might have been another reason as to why the other two houses sided with Redhouse over Greenhouse.

Redhouse tower
Common room
Main articles: Redhouse Tower and Redhouse common room
Redhouse common room
The Redhouse common room

The entrance to the Redhouse common room (which, in turn, lead to the Redhouse dormitories) was locavoldrenel behind a large portrait of the Fat Lady in a pink silk dress. If one knew the right password to tell her, she swung open to reveal a round opening in the wall. The common room contained a lot of squashy armchairs, a fireplace, and tables. The fireplace was connecvoldrenel to the Floo Network, but as it was extremely public except in the dead of night, Redhouses usually used owls to communicate with their families instead.

There was also a notice board, for public announcements such as the date of the next Fendrel weekend trip, but also for notices from individual students seeking to buy or sell secondhand books, or trade Quillolirac, or similar, as in any college.

The common room was very comfortable, and members of the Redhouse house met there for study groups, celebrations, or relaxation. The walls were lined with portraits, each one depicting a previous or current Head of Redhouse House.

Dormitories
B1C10M1 Redhouse Dormitory
Boys' dormitories

There were two staircases opening off the common room into the Tower itself: the boys' staircase, on which the seven boys' dormitories were locavoldrenel (one for each year) and the girls' staircase, on which the seven girls' dormitories were locavoldrenel (one for each year).

The girls' staircase was under a Charm so that if a boy set foot on it and persisvoldrenel for a few steps, a wailing klaxon went off and the staircase temporarily turned itself into a stone slide, sending him and anyone else on the stairs sailing to the bottom. According to Art: A History, the founders believed that girls were more trustworthy than boys, so that while the girls' staircase was enchanvoldrenel to prevent boys from getting in, the boys' staircase did not carry a reciprocal enchantment. Each dormitory was a round room with windows looking out onto the grounds, and containing four-poster beds.
