Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, often shortened to Hogwarts, was the British wizarding school located in the Scottish Highlands.[6][7] It was one of the three largest wizarding schools in Europe (the other two being Durmstrang Institute and Beauxbatons Academy of Magic.) Any magical children residing in Great Britain or Ireland who had reached the age of eleven by the start of the incoming term were accepted as students.[8][9] It was a state-owned school, funded by the British Ministry of Magic.[10]

The precise location of the school could never be uncovered because it was rendered Unplottable. To Muggles, the school appeared to be an old, abandoned castle. Similarly, most wizarding schools' locations were protected in order to protect the students and schools themselves from any harm.[4]

Established around the 10th century, Hogwarts was considered to be one of the finest magical institutions in the wizarding world, though other notable schools included Beauxbatons Academy of Magic in France, the Durmstrang Institute implied to be in northern Europe, and Ilvermorny School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in the United States.[4]

British and Irish children with magical abilities were enrolled at birth by the Quill of Acceptance and Book of Admittance,[11] and acceptance was confirmed by owl post at age eleven. However, if the child in question was a Muggle-born or raised by Muggles, like Harry Potter, with no knowledge of the wizarding world, a special messenger from the school visited the child and his or her family in order to inform them of their magical heritage and the existence of the wizarding world.[12] It was possible for students to transfer to the school as well.

The school's motto was Draco Dormiens Nunquam Titillandus (Draco Dormiens Nvnqvam Titillandvs), which, translated from Latin, means "Never tickle a sleeping dragon".

Hogwarts School, located somewhere in the Highlands of Scotland, consisted of the large Hogwarts Castle and extensive school grounds surrounding it, which included sloping lawns, flowerbeds, vegetable patches, as well as a loch (called the Black Lake), a large dense forest (called the Forbidden Forest), several greenhouses and other outbuildings, and a full-size Quidditch Pitch. One of the castle's towers held an owlery, which housed all the owls owned by the school and by students.

OfficialHogwartsMap
A map of the Hogwarts grounds and surrounding areas

The castle was set upon huge rocks above the Black Lake. Its three highest towers were the Astronomy, Ravenclaw, and Gryffindor Towers. The castle's 142 staircases were known to change position. The castle was known for its many updates and changes in layout throughout the years. It should be noted that some rooms in the school tended to "move around", as did the steps on the Grand Staircase. Albus Dumbledore once noted that even he did not know all of Hogwarts' secrets. The castle had been around for centuries, and consequently had a long history of ancient magic.

The school had numerous ancient charms and spells on and around it to safeguard it from danger. In addition to the fact that there were enchantments that prevented people from entering by stealth, it was also impossible for a Muggle to see it, as the school was bewitched so that when they looked at it, all they saw were some old ruins and several warnings of danger. Witches and wizards could not Apparate or Disapparate in Hogwarts grounds, except for when the Headmaster lifted the enchantment, whether only in certain areas or for the entire campus, so as to make the school less vulnerable when it served the headmaster to allow Apparition. Electricity and electronic devices were not found at Hogwarts. Due to the high levels of magic, Muggle substitutes for magic, such as computers, radar and electricity, "went haywire" around Hogwarts. Radios, however, were an exception as they were not powered by electricity, but by magic.

History
Founding
"We'll teach just those whose ancestry's purest."
— Professor Slytherin's opinion on the running of Hogwarts[src]
Hogwarts founders PM
The four founders of Hogwarts

Hogwarts was founded around 990 A.D. by four of the greatest wizards and witches of the age: Godric Gryffindor, Helga Hufflepuff, Rowena Ravenclaw, and Salazar Slytherin.[13] They each represented an aspect of personality that they wanted to bring out in new students.[14]

It is a popular historical theory that the location and name of Hogwarts were both chosen by Rowena, who had a dream about a warty hog leading her to a cliff by the lake, the location where the school would later be built.[15] Legend also said that when the founders arrived at that location in the waking world, they discovered a Pensieve, a very rare and powerful magical object, half buried in the dirt. Supposedly another reason why they chose that location.[16]

When the castle was built, they placed a multitude of Charms, including certain protective enchantments to ensure the well-being of their students, for which reason the castle and grounds had both always been protected with Anti-Apparition Charms.[7] Rowena also came up with the ever-changing floor plan.[17]

Around the same time the school was constructed, the four founders employed the school's first caretaker, Hankerton Humble, who would often clash with Peeves, the resident poltergeist, which he would have in common with every successive caretaker after him in the history of Hogwarts.[18]

For a time, the four founders cooperated quite harmoniously, however, shortly after founding the school, Salazar Slytherin had a falling out with the other founders. It began when Slyther desired to teach his students the Dark Arts, which the other founders disapproved of. As a result Slytherin constructed the Chamber of Secrets deep beneath the school, intended as a place where he could teach his students.[19] Later on, Slytherin’s relationship with the others was further strained over his views about blood purity. He wanted the school to be more selective and admit only pure-blood students. He felt only pure-blooded students deserved to learn magic, and those of other ancestry such as Muggle-borns and half-bloods were unworthy. The other three founders all strongly disagreed, especially Gryffindor. Slytherin, unable to sway the others, left the school, but not before repurposing the Chamber of Secrets. He foretold that only his own true heir would be able to open it once they arrived at the school, and the heir would unleash a murderous basilisk living inside to purge the school of all those who, in Slytherin's view, were unworthy to study magic.[13]

Despite the fact that the founders of Hogwarts were effectively in charge of the school during their time, none of them held the title of Headmaster or Headmistress of the school,[20] as that was only used sometime after Slytherin's departure, and held by another wizard, who was the first person to be entrusted the stewardship of Hogwarts Castle and the surrounding grounds after the three remaining founders passed away.[21]

The first student class to graduate from the school were immortalised in a portrait that would continue to hang in the school for over 1000 years.[22]

Early history
According to the eventual Gryffindor House ghost, Sir Nicholas de Mimsy-Porpington, because Hogwarts Castle was always intended as a safe place, the school had historically shouldered the responsibility of protecting "dangerous things" from falling into the wrong hands, and carrying the burden of the job remarkably well despite the fact that subsequent heads of the school and members of the faculty came to recognise how it compromised the security of the castle.[23] Indeed: Albus Dumbledore would reiterate this truth to Harry Potter years later during their private lessons into the history of Lord Voldemort, when the then Headmaster described Hogwarts Castle as "a stronghold of ancient magic", and explained that his refusal to employ him as a teacher stemmed in part from the suspicion that the Dark wizard would unravel more of its mysteries and take advantage of untapped stores of magic within the school for his own, nefarious purposes.[24]

About three hundred years after the school was founded, the Triwizard Tournament was established as an interscholastic competition between three of the most prestigious magical schools in Europe: Hogwarts, Beauxbatons (France) and Durmstrang (an unknown Northern European country). This tournament was considered the best way for wizards and witches of different nationalities to meet and socialise. The tournament continued for six centuries, until the death toll became too high. The tournament was discontinued until 1994.[25]

At some point in the 13th century, following the invention of Floo powder by Ignatia Wildsmith and the subsequent development of the Floo Network, a long line of Heads of the school refused to permit the school's fireplaces to be accessible this way, for fear of the castle's security could be breached.[26] However, by the 19th century, a network of Floo Flames had been set up that allowed students to quickly travel both within the castle, or between the inside and outside.[27]

Unrest with ancient magic
HL - Isidora meeting the Keepers
Isidora Morganach meeting the Keepers

In the Tudor period, four professors of the school, Percival Rackham, Charles Rookwood, Niamh Fitzgerald and San Bakar, formed the Keepers dedicated to keeping the secrets of ancient magic away from dangerous forces.[28] They welcomed Isidora Morganach to the school as a new student who started unconventionally as a fifth-year and learnt that she had the rare abilities of detecting and harnessing ancient magic.[29]

Professor Rackham, a wizard with similar abilities, mentored her to wield and master this power, but after becoming the Defence Against the Dark Arts professor,[30] Isidora ultimately went down a different path in which she used her abilities to extract pain from others,[31] sometimes even without their permission,[32] till the point where she ridded her father of all emotions, creating an ancient magic repository stored in the Keepers' Caverns. The Keepers disapproved of her actions and faced her in a duel, ending in Professor Bakar eliminating Isidora with the Killing Curse.[33] They then constructed a path leading to their portraits in the Map Chamber which might only be followed by another with abilities of ancient magic, and set up trials around the castle to make sure that their successor would be worthy of the power and make the right choices.[28]

B2C9M2 Moaning Myrtle's Bathroom
The second-floor girls' bathroom services as the entrance to the Chamber

During the 1700s, there was a proposal to install an elaborate plumbing system in the castle. This threatened the secrecy of the Chamber of Secrets, forcing Corvinus Gaunt, a Slytherin student, descendant of Salazar Slytherin and Parselmouth, to protect the entrance to the Chamber by having it concealed behind plumbing fixtures and sinks in second-floor girls' bathroom, so only future heirs of Slytherin would know how to open the Chamber.[34]

In 1876, then caretaker Rancorous Carpe made a spectacularly unsuccessful attempt to rid the school of Peeves by trying to bait him into a trap involving a wide variety of Muggle weapons and a vast, enchanted bell jar reinforced with various Containment Charms, which resulted in the evacuation of the castle and a three-day standoff between the vengeful poltergeist and then Headmistress Eupraxia Mole. In the end, the good professor agreed to sign a contract promising him additional privileges, including weekly swim in the boys' toilets on the ground floor, pickings of stale bread from the kitchen for throwing purposes and a new hat — to be custom-made by the Parisian witch Madame Bonhabille. After this, Carpe went into early retirement for "health reasons"[35] and was succeeded by Gladwin Moon.[36] The faculty didn't attempt to evict the poltergeist again,[35] though he still had a strained relationship with them, notably Madam Agnes Scribner, the librarian, who had Peeves as her "sworn nemesis",[37] and Professor Phineas Nigellus Black, who at some point had taken over as the least popular Headmaster the school had seen[38] and was often tormented by Peeves.[39]

In 1889, Mudiwa Onai travelled from Uagadou to Hogwarts to teach Divination, bringing her daughter Natsai Onai to the school.[40] The spring of 1890 saw the injury of a pure-blood[41] student during the Quidditch final, leading to Professor Black banning Quidditch in the next school year.[42]

Hogwarts Legacy background seen on website
The new fifth-year student at Hogwarts

That year, a new student would arrive at the school who, like Isidora Morganach, would begin as a fifth-year. Professor Black and the Deputy Headmistress Matilda Weasley worked with the Ministry to devise a plan for the student to ensure their success.[42] They were personally mentored by Professor Eleazar Fig to hone their magical skills, and, through their unexpected detour while travelling to Hogwarts, showed abilities of ancient magic.[43] After enrolling, they successfully reached the Map Chamber,[44] whereupon they completed all four of the Keepers' trials.[30][31][32][33] Their time at Hogwarts coincided with the goblin Ranrok's pursuit of the power within the ancient magic repositories,[45] during which an uneasy alliance was formed between Ranrok and the Dark wizard Victor Rookwood.[31]

After vanquishing Rookwood,[46] the student faced Ranrok in a final battle in the Keepers' Caverns aided by the faculty, and ended his rebellion. However, it also saw the death of Professor Fig, for whom the school held a memorial ceremony.[47] During this time, the student also joined their classmates Natsai Onai and Poppy Sweeting in taking down Theophilus Harlow,[48] Rookwood's right-hand man,[49] and thwarting the plots of poachers,[50] respectively. The student also helped Sebastian Sallow with finding a cure for his sister Anne Sallow, which ended in failure.[51]

Prelude to the war
Cupboard with Leta Lestrange and Newt Scamander
Leta finding Newt in a cupboard

In the 1910s, Leta Lestrange was bullied at Hogwarts due to the gossip about her being an unwanted child and the tragic death of her half-brother. She encountered Newt Scamander while searching for a place to hide from her pursuers, whom she had used the dark charm Oscausi on in retaliation for their malicious gossip. Newt and Leta developed a remarkably close bond, spending much time together over the holidays caring for an injured baby raven.[52]

Newt boggart
Newt facing his greatest fear, an office job

At one point, when Albus Dumbledore was teaching students how to defend against Boggarts in Defence Against the Dark Arts class, Newt was asked to step forward and was revealed that he was scared of ending up stuck with a tedious office job. Leta went soon after and showed that her boggart was her half-brother drowning to death. Leta was later comforted by Newt near the Great Lake, when she was upset by her own Boggart. He show her one of the Bowtruckles he had befriended on the school grounds, because he was the only one they would not hide from.[52]

Global Wizarding War
"Why leave Hogwarts when the world outside is burning?"
— Anton Vogel about Albus Dumbledore staying in the castle during the Global Wizarding War[src]
Daily Prophet - 29 Nov 1926
The 29 November 1926 issue of the Daily Prophet

On 29 November 1926, the Daily Prophet reported that security had to be increased at Hogwarts in response to the growing threat of Gellert Grindelwald's impact on the Global Wizarding War. Measures included Headmaster Armando Dippet holding an emergency meeting with worried parents and students being sent home early.[53]

Torquil Travers and Theseus Scamander came here to seek out the current Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher, Albus Dumbledore and talk to him about Grindelwald and his plans. Leta soon after walks around Hogwarts and reminisces on the past. Dumbledore finds her and they talk about their shared trauma of losing their siblings.[52]

Hogwarts Viaduct Crimes of Grindelwald
Newt Scamander coming to talk to Dumbledore

Newton Scamander, Porpentina Goldstein, Theseus Scamander, Torquil Travers, Rudolph Spielman, Nagini, Jacob Kowalski, Yusuf Kama, and an unidentified Ministry man came back to talk to Albus Dumbledore about Grindelwald's rally and the blood pact Grindelwald made with Dumbledore.[52]

Even during the Global Wizarding War, Hogwarts was kept open and live, running and allowing students to attend.[54]

First Chamber of Secrets opening
"Of course, it was fifty years ago, so it was before his time, but he knows all about it, and he says that it was all kept quiet and it'll look suspicious if I know too much about it. But I know one thing — last time the Chamber of Secrets was opened, a Mudblood died. So I bet it's a matter of time before one of them's killed this time.... I hope it's Granger"
— Draco Malfoy discussing the first opening of the Chamber of Secrets[src]
The existence of the school was threatened twice when the Chamber of Secrets was opened. The first time it was opened was in 1942, when Slytherin house pupil Tom Riddle, a direct descendant of Salazar Slytherin and the man who would become Lord Voldemort, opened the Chamber in his fifth year.[55]

COS carrying Myrtle's body away
Myrtle's body being removed from school grounds

When a girl named Myrtle Warren was killed in 1943, the Ministry of Magic threatened to close the school. As Riddle spent his time away from Hogwarts in a Muggle orphanage, he did not want the school closed. His request to remain in school over the holidays was denied due to the situation he created. Upset with himself, he framed Rubeus Hagrid, and although Albus Dumbledore still suspected Riddle, Hagrid was expelled, and Riddle got off without punishment. He, however would leave a cursed diary which would allow him to possess anyone who used it in order to reopen the Chamber and continue the heinous work. It was only after the 1992-1993 reopening that Riddle's crime was exposed and Hagrid was exonerated.[55]

First Wizarding War
Jacob's sibling: "Who created the Cursed Vaults? And why?"
Albus Dumbledore: "There are many theories. Some say they were crafted by one of the Founders, others say they were built by a paranoid Headmaster... As far as why, most of the speculation is too dangerous and implausible to indulge until we know the truth."
— Jacob's sibling talking to Albus Dumbledore about the Cursed Vaults[src]
Throughout the entirety of the First Wizarding War, which lasted for eleven long years and caused much distress among the students, Hogwarts Castle was perhaps the only safe haven in wizarding Britain, due to the presence of Albus Dumbledore. Dumbledore had risen to the post of Headmaster, and was the only one whom Voldemort was ever afraid of.[56]

Marauders OOTPF
The Marauders in the 1970s

During that time, Severus Snape, Remus Lupin, Sirius Black, Peter Pettigrew, as well as Lily Potter and James Potter attended Hogwarts and four of them were part of the infamous Marauders, who often bullied Snape frequently,[57] until they graduated in 1978.

While war waged outside the ancient walls of the school and it remained safe from Dark Forces outside the castle, the existence of ancient threats hidden deep within it began to stir when a student by the name of Jacob became intrigued with and began to search for the fabled Cursed Vaults, five secret rooms of ambiguous origins somewhere within the castle said to house ancient magical treasures older even than the school itself.[citation needed]

Jacob grew increasingly obsessed with his quest to prove the existence of the Cursed Vaults throughout his school career and broke several school rules in his effort to locate them. The situation escalated further as when the pupil finally found it, he examined the outer chamber leading to the vault and, as a result of tampering with magic he did not understand, he inadvertently unleashed a curse that threatened to encase the entire castle in ice, injuring several students in the process.[citation needed]

Ice-vault-vision-HPHM
A Cursed Vault, hidden within the castle and its grounds

By that point, Jacob's quests for the vaults were no secret. Rumours began spreading among the student body that he unleashed several curses upon the school, and even was cursed himself and that he eventually went mad. Ultimately, however, Jacob managed to break into the vault itself, causing the ice to vanish. Despite his part in ending the threat, however, he was found to have endangered the school, as he unleashed the threat in the first place. Jacob's resultant expulsion from Hogwarts was covered in the Daily Prophet.[58]

With the cursed ice gone from the halls of Hogwarts and his students once more safe from it, Dumbledore and the rest of the school staff did their best to dim the rumours that Jacob had actually located one of the vaults, treating it as an isolated incident that had more to do with Jacob's search for the Cursed Vaults rather than the vaults themselves. They hoped to discourage others from looking for them and maintain the common view that they were just a myth. This worked so effectively that while people still spoke of it a long time afterwards, no one, not even Jacob's own mother, believed that the Cursed Vaults actually existed.[citation needed]

By the end of the 1970s, Lord Voldemort's ascendancy was almost complete. While the Ministry of Magic did their best to both put up a fight and keep wizardkind a secret, a true resistance to him was being concentrated in the underground organisation founded by Dumbledore himself called the Order of the Phoenix. Several former students at the school went on to join the order.[citation needed]

On Hallowe'en of the 1981–1982 school year, news would have reached the school of the fall of Lord Voldemort and his failed attempt at murdering the infant Harry Potter, after which students and staff alike would have celebrated the fall of the Dark Lord.[citation needed]

Race for the Cursed Vaults
Ice defeated
Jacob's sibling and their friends breaking into the Vault of Ice

The effects of the Cursed Vaults resurfaced around Hogwarts after the end of the war. It first started with the cursed ice reappearing in Hogwarts castle during the 1984–1985 school year. By that time, Jacob's younger sibling had enrolled, and it took two years for they and their friends to locate and break into the Vault of Ice and stop the ice from further spreading.[59] The rest of the Cursed Vaults had subsequently all been tampered with, contaminating the school respectively with Boggarts,[60] the sleepwalking curse[61] and the portrait curse,[62] but thanks to Jacob's sibling and their continually growing circle of friends, the next three Vaults were successfully infiltrated in three consecutive school years.[63][64][65]

BuriedVault-CentreColumn
Jacob's sibling opening the centre column in the Buried Vault after defeating Patricia Rakepick

During this time, it was gradually revealed to Jacob's sibling and their friends that a secret dark organisation known as R existed and had also been trying to find the Cursed Vaults for the supposed treasures. At the start of Jacob's sibling's fourth year, the 1987–1988 school year, Patricia Rakepick arrived at Hogwarts apparently to help Albus Dumbledore deal with the Cursed Vaults,[61] while in fact being a Dark witch from R who sought to continue her unfinished business with the Vaults. She became the Defence Against the Dark Arts professor the next year and trained several students, including Jacob's sibling, to be her curse-breaking assistants. Arriving again outside the Buried Vault, she revealed her true nature to the students and attempted to go in before them, but was magically choked by Jacob's sibling and fled.[65]

Rowan Death
Patricia Rakepick murdering Rowan Khanna

Rakepick's ability to teach students to defend against the Dark Arts, ironically, turned out to have been a lot more competent than the professor who succeeded her in the next school year. With Dumbledore's permission, the fresh graduate Bill Weasley returned to the school to teach this subject after regular classes.[66] During the school year, yet another curse spread around Hogwarts, continuing to Petrify students, indicating the activity of the final Cursed Vault.[67] While working towards investigating R, the students encountered Rakepick in the Forest Grove, who attempted to kill Ben Copper, leading to the sacrifice of Rowan Khanna.[68]

The school staff held a memorial ceremony and suspended the lessons,[69] and the tragedy prompted the vengeful Jacob's sibling, Ben Copper and Merula Snyde to form a secret organisation of their own, the Circle of Khanna, to fight R and race them in locating the final Cursed Vault.[70] It was found to be under the Great Lake, and they had a final showdown with Rakepick outside. She was once again defeated before Jacob's sibling decided to seal the Vault for good to prevent the ancient statue curse from being unleashed again.[71]

Harry Potter enrolled
Protecting the Philosopher's Stone
Main article: 1991–1992 school year
Albus Dumbledore: "And finally, I must tell you that this year, the third-floor corridor on the right-hand side is out of bounds to everyone who does not wish to die a very painful death."
Harry Potter: "He's not serious?"
Percy Weasley: "Must be. It's odd, because he usually gives us a reason why we're not allowed to go somewhere — the forest's full of dangerous beasts, everyone knows that. I do think he might have told us prefects, at least."
— Albus Dumbledore announcing rules for the 1991–1992 school year[src]
Harry Potter being sorted PSF
Famous Harry Potter being Sorted into Gryffindor

On 1 September 1991, Harry Potter began his career as a student at Hogwarts. Already famous for being believed to be responsible for vanquishing Lord Voldemort at the age of one, he soon began, with the help of his friends Ron Weasley and Hermione Granger, to unravel the secret of the Philosopher's Stone being kept at the school. Harry discovered that the Defence Against the Dark Arts Professor, Quirinus Quirrell, was a host body for the barely-alive Voldemort, who wanted to use the Stone to restore himself back to his former glory and gain everlasting life.[1]

B1C17M1 Quirrell and Harry by the Mirror of Erised
Harry preventing Voldemort from acquiring the Philosopher's Stone

Harry, Ron, and Hermione suffered a series of difficult challenges down in the Underground Chambers, in an attempt to stop the Philosopher's Stone being stolen by Severus Snape. The three believed Snape was trying to steal the stone, when in reality, Quirrell was. Harry discovered Quirrell in the chambers and was able to defeat him, thwarting Voldemort in his attempt to get the Stone and restoring his body. Harry managed this after realising that Quirrell's skin burned whenever he made contact with Harry. Dumbledore stated that Lily's self sacrifice left a mark of love in Harry and that Quirrell was so full of hatred, greed, and ambition that he could not bear to touch a person marked by something so good.[1]

Reopening of the Chamber of Secrets
Main article: 1992–1993 school year
"THE CHAMBER OF SECRETS HAS BEEN OPENED. ENEMIES OF THE HEIR, BEWARE."
— A message from the Heir of Slytherin[src]
B2C8M2 Writing on the Wall cropped
Ginny Weasley's attack on Mrs Norris and first blood-written message on the wall

In 1992, the Chamber of Secrets was re-opened by Ron's younger sister Ginny, under the influence of Tom Riddle's diary. The diary allowed Riddle's memory to possess Ginny and act through her to open the Chamber for a second time. She left threatening messages on the school walls twice, which were known as the Writing on the Wall. Several students were Petrified due to meeting the Serpent of Slytherin's gaze indirectly. Quidditch matches were largely cancelled. Towards the end of the school year, the situation at the school was so severe that it was possible for the school to be shut down completely.[55]

Desiring to see Lord Voldemort return to power, Lucius Malfoy had slipped the diary into her bundle of school books, taking advantage of her ignorance that it was a Horcrux. His ulterior motive was to ruin the reputations of several great wizards, including Dumbledore and the Weasley children's father Arthur Weasley, the latter of whom played a big role in the enactment of the Muggle Protection Act. However, Harry discovered the truth and destroyed the diary and the Basilisk, thus bringing an end to these dark plots.[55]

Sirius Black escaped
Main article: 1993–1994 school year
"As you will all be aware after their search of the Hogwarts Express, our school is presently playing host to some of the Dementors of Azkaban, who are here on Ministry of Magic business. They are stationed at every entrance to the grounds, and while they are with us, I must make it plain that nobody is to leave school without permission."
— Albus Dumbledore announcing the presence of Dementors at Hogwarts in 1993[src]
In 1993, Harry's notorious godfather Sirius Black escaped from Azkaban. Sirius had been convicted of murdering twelve Muggles and Peter Pettigrew with the Blasting Curse. He also betrayed James, Lily, and Harry Potter's whereabouts to Voldemort in his duty as their Secret-Keeper. Because of the charges against him, he spent twelve years in a high-security cell in Azkaban. The Ministry of Magic also believed that Black was after Harry, as they heard Black murmur "he's at Hogwarts" in his sleep. As a result, Black was thought to believe that killing Harry would bring Voldemort back to full power.[72]

B3C8M2 Fat Lady portrait slashed
Sirius Black's attack on the Fat Lady's portrait

Black broke into the school twice: one time almost ripping the Fat Lady to shreds, and another time getting close to Ron's "rat", Scabbers. During the second break-in, Ron awoke, which resulted in him screaming in fright, as Black loomed over him with a knife. His screams woke the whole tower and alerted McGonagall to the incident. After this incident, security measures were further heightened. Harry, Ron, and Hermione met Black in the Shrieking Shack, along with Remus Lupin. Lupin had been a friend of Black as well as Harry's parents and Pettigrew during the time they attended Hogwarts as a students.[72]

Black revealed the truth to them. He was innocent, and it was Pettigrew who had done the things Sirius had been convicted of. To frame Sirius, he had chopped off one of his fingers as a red herring, turned into his Animagus form (the rat, Scabbers), and scurried off. Sirius had come back to kill Pettigrew, and now that Lupin had heard his story, he believed him and set out to help.[72]

B3C21M4 Sirius flying off on Buckbeak
Hermione Granger and Harry Potter saving Buckbeak and Sirius Black

However, Harry persuaded them to give Pettigrew to the Ministry and let the Dementors have him. As they took Pettigrew back to the castle, Pettigrew escaped and returned to Voldemort to help him return to power. With the use of a time-turner, Harry and Hermione later helped Sirius escape on Buckbeak the Hippogriff while Ron was in the Hospital Wing, saving both Sirius' and Buckbeak's lives.[72]

The Triwizard Tournament revived
Main article: 1994–1995 school year
"As I was saying, we are to have the honour of hosting a very exciting event over the coming months, an event that has not been held for over a century. It is my very great pleasure to inform you that the Triwizard Tournament will be taking place at Hogwarts this year."
— Albus Dumbledore introducing the Triwizard Tournament in 1994[src]
B4C23M1 Weird Sisters playing at the Yule Ball
Yule Ball

In 1994, Hogwarts played host to the infamous Triwizard Tournament, this time with more powerful safety measures in place. It had been many years since the last tournament had been held, but in the light of the advent of advanced safety measures, the tournament was deemed "safe". However, more dark plots were being hatched. Barty Crouch Jnr, disguised as Alastor "Mad-Eye" Moody, managed to enter Harry in the Tournament by putting his name in the Goblet of Fire under the name of a fourth school, which ensured he would be chosen by the Goblet.[25]

Harry's forced involvement in this plot caused him great misery at Hogwarts, as the representatives for Beauxbatons and Durmstrang, as well as many Hogwarts students, believed he hoodwinked the goblet and entered himself in the tournament. It was because of Crouch Jnr and his influence over certain house-elves that Harry ended up surviving until the end of the tournament and reaching the goal of the Third Task, along with fellow Hogwarts student Cedric Diggory. On Voldemort's orders, Diggory was killed by Pettigrew, and Harry was surrounded by Death Eaters in Little Hangleton graveyard. Voldemort was brought back to his physical form using Harry's blood.[25]

B4C37M1 Great Hall mourning Cedric's death
Memorial feast to Cedric Diggory

Voldemort attempted to torture and humiliate Harry by means of the Unforgivable Curses. He used the Cruciatus Curse twice on Harry and the Imperius Curse once; Harry was able to resist the latter. Harry escaped and succeeded in alerting all of Voldemort's enemies, Dumbledore in particular, that he had returned. Dumbledore reestablished the Order of the Phoenix one hour after he was alerted. However, many, including Minister for Magic Cornelius Fudge, chose not to believe him.[25]

Ministry takeover
Main article: 1995–1996 school year
"We have had two changes in staffing this year. We are very pleased to welcome back Professor Grubbly-Plank, who will be taking Care of Magical Creatures lessons; we are also delighted to introduce Professor Umbridge, our new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher."
— Albus Dumbledore announcing teaching changes at the school in 1995[src]
Umbridgehead
Umbridge as the Hogwarts High-Inquisitor

Hogwarts was further threatened when the Ministry of Magic began implementing "Educational Decrees" in 1995, as part of a conspiracy to discredit and ruin Dumbledore and Harry. Dolores Umbridge, the new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher and Minister Fudge's Undersecretary, was the centre of this plan.

By way of these Educational Decrees, she slowly took control of Hogwarts, eventually replacing Dumbledore as Headmistress. However, it was through the cunning of Hermione and the other members of Dumbledore's Army, which was founded by her, Ron, and Harry, that Umbridge was overthrown. The Ministry had no choice but to accept that Voldemort had returned. Umbridge was then removed from Hogwarts and Dumbledore was reinstated.[73]

The Headmaster eliminated
Main article: 1996–1997 school year
"The lightning-struck tower. Calamity. Disaster. Coming nearer all the time."
— Professor Trelawney before the battle commences[src]
Dark Mark over Hogwarts 2
The Dark Mark above the Astronomy Tower

Through the 1996–1997 school year, the new Minister for Magic Rufus Scrimgeour ordered Aurors to guard Hogwarts for protection from Dark forces, along with the castle's defences being fortified in many ways. In 1997, Hogwarts was attacked by a mob of Death Eaters. Lucius Malfoy's son Draco was forced into the service of Lord Voldemort for fear of his and his family's lives.

As a result, Headmaster Dumbledore's safety was compromised, and he was killed by Severus Snape, in a secret coup de grace arranged in advance between them. Following this "horrible" tragedy, Professor Minerva McGonagall was appointed acting Headmistress, though the security of the school hung by a thread. There was no certainty that Hogwarts would remain open. The faculty agreed to follow "established procedures" and let the school governors ultimately decide what to do.

B6C28 Harry and Dumbledore
Dumbledore's corpse at the base of the Astronomy Tower

Throughout the year students were taken out of school by their families for safety and fear reasons, such as Eloise Midgen and Hannah Abbott, while two of Draco's botched attempts to assassinate Dumbledore ended up dangerously harming Katie Bell and Ronald Weasley, which only served in increasing the anxiety in the atmosphere. However, when Draco succeeded in allowing the Death Eaters entrance, the full effect came to be when many parents rushed their children home, fearing that even Hogwarts, reputably the safest location in the wizarding world, was no longer safe from Voldemort.[56]

Lost to the Dark forces
Main article: 1997–1998 school year
"Severus Snape, long-standing Potions master at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and wizardry, was today appointed Headmaster in the most important of several staffing changes at the ancient school. Following the resignation of the previous Muggle Studies teacher, Alecto Carrow will take over the post while her brother, Amycus, fills the position of Defence Against the Dark Arts professor."
— Lord Voldemort takes indirect control of Hogwarts[src]
Dp severus snape
Headmaster Snape

Regardless of the school governors' decision, with the takeover of the Ministry by Voldemort, attendance at Hogwarts was mandatory for all eligible children. New, militaristic requirements were established, such as requiring students to provide proof of blood status. This enabled Voldemort to keep an eye on the entire wizarding world from a young age and identify Muggle-borns, including eleven-year old children who have no knowledge of their magical nature before their forced identification. Such youngsters faced the possibility of never entering Hogwarts nor returning to their homes ever again.[74]

Academic instruction at Hogwarts became corrupted. Muggle Studies became a required subject, and instruction in it took a new tack with an anti-Muggle bias, while Defence Against the Dark Arts had simply become Dark Arts. Students were taught illegal curses outright, with older students being instructed to practise curses on underclassmen. Snape was appointed Headmaster, and Alecto and Amycus Carrow, teachers of Muggle Studies and Dark Arts, respectively, had been assigned as his deputies. It was a time of great terror in which no one could be certain who was friend or foe.[74] Unknown to many, Snape was secretly aiding the Order and the resistance, and stopped the Carrows from inflicting inhumane punishments on erring students.

The climactic battle
Main article: Battle of Hogwarts
"They stood up at once, and together he, Ron, and Hermione left the Great Hall. Great chunks were missing from the marble staircase, part of the balustrade gone, and rubble and bloodstains occurred every few steps as they climbed."
— The damage inflicted on the castle from the Battle of Hogwarts[src]
Concept artwork 2 Battle of Hogwarts
The Battle of Hogwarts

In May 1998, the Battle of Hogwarts took place as one of its most infamous alumni, Tom Riddle, better known by then as Lord Voldemort, returned to attack the school and subdue or destroy its defenders. Voldemort claimed he had no desire to harm the school or its students, but he and his Death Eaters spared no one who opposed them and recklessly damaged the school during their assault.[74]

B7C36M2 Voldemort vanquished
Harry Potter's final defeat of Voldemort and the end of the Second Wizarding War

Numerous students, staff, parents, graduates, and friends of Hogwarts rose to the school's defence in its hour of need, including the notorious poltergeist Peeves. Thanks to Harry Potter, Lord Voldemort was permanently destroyed and his Death Eaters disbanded forever. Minerva McGonagall became the Headmistress of the school. Harry was celebrated as a true hero.[74]

Hogwarts sustained extensive damage during the battle. Multiple areas of the main building and adjacent areas were set on fire or blown up, and the Quidditch pitch was largely destroyed by fire.[74]

After the battle, Hogwarts was repaired. Some students, such as Hermione Granger, returned to the school in 1998 to complete their education.

A new century
Ten years after the Battle of Hogwarts,[75] normal school life had resumed with Minerva McGonagall still as Headmistress and Rubeus Hagrid still as the Care of Magical Creatures professor and Keeper of Keys and Grounds, and Neville Longbottom had become the Herbology professor and the Head of Gryffindor House.[76]

Professor Gorski teaching 2
Professor Gorski teaching

In 2009, Jakub Gorski came to the school as the visiting History of Magic professor with his lemur "assistant" Bly, who later turned out to be an Animagus who had bewitched Gorski with the Imperius Curse as a part of his search of the Turner family heirloom. A group of students, including Lottie Turner herself, found out the truth during the school year and foiled Bly's attempt to use Lottie to obtain the heirloom.[76]

Elspeth MacGillony greeting player and Daniel MA
MacGillony greeting students

During the 2010–2011 school year, Elspeth MacGillony was appointed the subtitute Study of Ancient Runes professor while Clodagh Dromgoole was on leave. Her real motive in returning to the school, however, was to find the crown of courage in the Great Lake, and she used the Imperius Curse on several students to make them find it for her. This was discovered by Headmistress McGonagall in time, and MacGillony was sacked and arrested.[76]

Siege of Hogwarts MA
Creatures attacking Hogwarts

In the time that followed, Dementors attacked Hogwarts. At first there were minor-scale attacks, which the staff handled in time, but things took a turn for the worse when the Dementors summoned other dark creatures to fight for them. Headmistress McGonagall assembled the staff and put a magical shield around the castle to block the creatures. They managed to breach the shield regardless, which then led to a big battle.[76]

Time-travel accidents
RoseInGreatHallCursedChild
Rose Weasley in the Great Hall

By 2017, many descendants of previous students were now coming to Hogwarts as new pupils, such as Albus Potter, Scorpius Malfoy and Rose Granger-Weasley. In their fourth year in 2020, Albus and Scorpius illegally used a Time-Turner to travel back in time and caused the timeline to deviate, therefore witnessing several alternate versions of Hogwarts in the early 2020s, including a version with only minor differences from the original one, and versions in which Dolores Umbridge was the Head in a world where Voldemort had won the Battle of Hogwarts. Nevertheless, they were eventually successful in correcting the timeline and restoring peace to Hogwarts.[5]

Typical school year
"Now… to our new students, welcome, to our old students, welcome back! Another year full of magical education awaits you…"
— Start-of-Term Feast speech[src]
B1C6M1 Platform 9¾
The scarlet Hogwarts Express steam engine on Platform 9¾

Term began on 1 September. Students usually reached Hogwarts via the Hogwarts Express, which left Platform 9¾ of London's King's Cross Station at 11 a.m. sharp.[1] There seemed to be other ways of entering the school, such as via broomsticks or Floo Powder, or simply Apparating to a nearby location such as Hogsmeade. Missing the Hogwarts Express for any reason was a very serious problem, but would not cost the student points as long as they got there before the term had officially started.[55] The Hogwarts Express brought the students to Hogsmeade Station. First years traditionally crossed the Black Lake in boats with the gamekeeper, travelling under an opening in the rocks upon which Hogwarts was built, through a curtain of ivy, and finally into an underground harbour.[1]

Older students travelled on the road in carriages pulled by Thestrals (invisible to any that hadn't witnessed death) to the castle.[73] The Start-of-Term Feast took place in the Great Hall. This feast included the Sorting Ceremony, followed by a few words from the current Headmaster or Headmistress. The banquet started after this, including large quantities of food and drink. The feast was closed with a few more words from the Headmaster or headmistress, including the usual "start-of-term notices".[1]

B1C13M1 Gryffindor CommonRoom1 PM
The Gryffindor common room

After dinner, students were led to their house common room by a prefect. This was a special time for new students to get comfortable with their surroundings, because the next day classes would begin. The class schedules were handed out during breakfast by the Heads of House. After two weeks of classes, the Quidditch team trials and flying lessons for the first years usually occured.[1]

Homework was usually assigned to students at the end of classes or at the end of the school term. It was usually completed by students in the Study Hall, Study Area, library, Gryffindor Tower reading room or another common room. A homework planner, a Shouting Schedule for instance, could be used to help students to keep track of all their homework assignments. Some magical planners also told the students to complete the homework when it was opened. If a student failed to complete the homework or was late in handing it in, they could be given a detention as a punishment.[1]

Hogwarts's school year was structured in a similar way to other non-magical schools and colleges in the UK, with a three-term year punctuated by holidays at Christmas and Easter and bounded by the long summer holiday of nine weeks. Students had the option of staying at Hogwarts for the winter and spring holidays. Those who chose to stay at the castle during the Christmas holidays did not have lessons and attended a feast on Christmas Day. Students also did not have classes the week of Easter, but this was much less enjoyable due to the large amount of work the teachers usually assigned students at this time in preparation for final exams.[1]

B3C10M3 Hogsmeade
Hogsmeade village during Christmas

Other than the breaks and weekends, students did not receive holidays. However, students in the third year and above were allowed to visit Hogsmeade, the local village, occasionally.[72] There were normally four feasts per year: the Start-of-Term Feast at the beginning of the school year, End-of-Term Feast at the end of the school year, and feasts at Hallowe'en and Christmas.[1] Feasts were also called to mark special occasions, such as the beginning of the Triwizard Tournament.[25]

Hallowe'en Feast
Hallowe'en feast

Classes would proceed normally and the next notable event occurred on the evening of 31 October: the Hallowe'en feast. Decorations included giant pumpkins and flocks of hundreds of bats flying across the halls. The served foods included pumpkin treats, tarts, cakes and all sorts of magical sweets. The Quidditch season started usually with the first Quidditch match in the first weeks of November. In the second week of December, the Deputy Head would take names of those who would stay at Hogwarts over the Christmas holidays. The first term usually ended about a week before Christmas, and most of the students and some of the teachers went home by the school train.[1]

B1C12M2 Christmas feast at Hogwarts
Christmas feast at Hogwarts

In the Triwizard Tournament years, the Yule Ball occurred on the evening of Christmas Day, ending at midnight.[25] On 25 December, a Christmas feast was held in the Great Hall. Shortly after 6 January (Epiphany aka Twelfth Night), the Hogwarts Express returned to Hogsmeade; the second term would begin. The exact dates of the beginning of the Easter holidays varied every year. During these holidays, the students could go home. The final exams were held the first week of June and the results came out on the second week. In the evening before the Hogwarts Express went back to London, the Leaving Feast was held, and outgoing students would partake in a graduation ceremony. The Hogwarts Express returned to London during the third week of June. Some staff and all of the students left Hogwarts for summer holidays.[1]

School spirit
"And be warned: thievery is not tolerated at Hogwarts."
— Albus Dumbledore explaining the rules of Hogwarts to a young Tom Riddle[src]
The motto of Hogwarts was: "Draco dormiens nunquam titillandus", translated as: Never tickle a sleeping dragon. Quidditch was possibly the most popular sport at the school, with most of the student body turning out to watch each match.[1] Hogwarts also had a Frog Choir which sang at special occasions.[77][78][79]

Coat of Arms
Hogwartscrest
The coat of arms of Hogwarts shows each house's mascot and house colours

See also: Heraldry
The blazon of the Hogwarts Coat of Arms clockwise from top left: the Gryffindor lion, the Slytherin serpent, the Ravenclaw eagle, and the Hufflepuff badger, all circling the letter 'H'. The motto, "draco dormiens nunquam titillandus", carried in an escroll beneath the shield. The way that the house mascots are arranged makes the centre line divide the houses with warm colours and mammalian mascots from the houses with cold colours and saurian mascots.[1]

