The Marauder's Map was a magical document that revealed all of Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Not only did it show every classroom, every hallway, and every corner of the castle, but it also showed every inch of the grounds, as well as all the secret passages that were hidden within its walls and the location of every person in the grounds, portrayed by a dot.[1]

It was also capable of accurately identifying each person, and was not fooled by Animagi, Polyjuice Potions, or Invisibility Cloaks; even the Hogwarts ghosts or Peeves were not exempt. Nor were animals, such as the caretaker's cat.

One of the map's possible flaws was that it did not differentiate people who had matching names (if a son was named after his father, the names were not given a Junior or Senior at the end). Also, it did not seem to show unplottable rooms, as it was Dobby and not the map that revealed the existence and location of the Room of Requirement.

The Chamber of Secrets never appeared on the map either because the creators never knew of it or it was unplottable as well, since when Ron and Hermione were in it collecting Basilisk fangs, they did not appear on the map similar to the Room of Requirement.

History
Creation
"The magic used in the map's creation is advanced and impressive; it includes the Homonculous Charm, enabling the possessor of the map to track the movements of every person in the castle, and it was also enchanted to forever repel (as insultingly as possible) the curiosity of their nemesis, Severus Snape."
— Description of the magic involved in the map's creation[src]
The Marauders
Sirius, James, Remus, and Peter: The map's creators

The Marauder's Map was created by Remus Lupin (Moony), Peter Pettigrew (Wormtail), Sirius Black (Padfoot), and James Potter (Prongs) while they were attending Hogwarts. The creation of the map started by 1974[3] and was finished between 1975 and 1978, because the titles on the map refer to the nicknames of these men in their Animagus forms, and, in Lupin's case, werewolf form.

The four created the map via the usage of the Homonculous Charm, a powerful and advanced charm that enchanted the map to track the movements of everyone in the castle, as well as a charm to insult Severus Snape. The ability of Sirius, Peter, and James to become Animagi enabled them to explore the castle grounds by night undetected. The interior of the castle, meanwhile, was mapped over time with the help of James's Invisibility Cloak.[4]

This artefact proved quite useful to the foursome (commonly termed "the Marauders") through the years, until it was confiscated by Argus Filch in their final year. The Marauders were never able to steal it back.[4]

Locating the Cursed Vault
At some point by 1988, the map was stolen from Filch's office.[5] The thief left a mess in the office.[6]

In the 1987–1988 school year, Patricia Rakepick looked for the map in Filch's office, but noticed that it was no longer there. She asked Rosmerta if Jacob had left the map in the Three Broomsticks Inn, and Rosmerta responded that she did not know what Rakepick was talking about.[5] In the 1988–1989 school year, when coming up with a plan to locate the fourth Cursed Vault, Merula Snyde told Jacob's sibling to get the Marauder's Map. In order to find out where the map was, Jacob's sibling gave Filch a cake, which put him in a good enough mood to reveal that the map had been stolen from his office and he suspected the thief to be Peeves. With this information, Jacob's sibling and Jae Kim went to talk to Peeves. Peeves refused to reveal the location of the map, as a friend of his who hated Jacob and potions had told him not to help Jacob's sibling.[6] The map had, at some point by late 1988, ended up in the possession of Mundungus Fletcher. The map was later stolen from him, and he did not know who the attacker was.[7]

Jacob's sibling and Jae Kim found the Marauder's Map in the Icy Corridor along with Scabbers. Jacob's sibling did not think much of the parchment, but took it to Patricia Rakepick, who knew what the Marauder's Map was.[8] Jacob's sibling and Rakepick later discussed the map on the Training Grounds. Rakepick told Jacob's sibling the words to unlock it as well as the words to hide its secrets. Jacob's sibling planned to use the map and talked about what they saw on the map. They mentioned a person moving so quickly that they couldn't read the person's name. After this mention, Rakepick took the map, saying that the person was the one who attacked Mundungus Fletcher and that keeping their name a secret was to protect Jacob's sibling.[9] The map was returned to Filch's office at some point later that school year or in the following school year.[10]

Fred and George Weasley
"This little beauty's taught us more than all the teachers in this school."
— Fred Weasley regarding the Marauder's Map[src]
Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban 0757
Fred and George give Harry Potter the Marauder's Map

Fred and George Weasley stole the map from Filch's office in their first year at Hogwarts. They had been taken to his office for letting off a Dungbomb and saw a drawer marked "Confiscated and Highly Dangerous". George dropped another Dungbomb, while Fred stole the map from the drawer.

They had to experiment with it in order to learn how to get it to work, but it gave them clues, "flickering into life here and there" when they came close to the activating phrase, until finally they got it exactly. Because of this map, the twins memorised the secret passageways of Hogwarts, which they used for quite a few of their many pranks.[1][11]

In Harry Potter's third year at Hogwarts, Fred and George gave him the map. It was a mark of their high esteem for Harry, and their belief that he stood in need of assistance with a destiny none of them yet fully understood, that they later gifted the map to him, unwittingly passing it on to the child of one of its creators.[1][4]

Harry Potter
George Weasley: "This, Harry, is the secret of our success."
Fred Weasley: "It’s a wrench, giving it to you, but we decided last night, your need’s greater than ours."
George Weasley: "Anyway, we know it by heart. We bequeath it to you. We don’t really need it anymore."
Harry Potter: "And what do I need with a bit of old parchment?"
— Fred and George Weasley giving Harry Potter the map[src]
B3C10M1 Harry next to the One-Eyed Witch
Harry using the map to sneak off to Hogsmeade

Harry used the map throughout his time as a student at Hogwarts, especially during his third year, when he tried to find his way into Hogsmeade.[1] Then, he used the One-Eyed Witch Passage, which led into the Honeydukes cellar. Professor Remus Lupin caught Harry with the map (after Snape found it while interrogating Harry), and subsequently confiscated it.[12]

The map was the real reason Professor Lupin discovered Peter Pettigrew was still alive, leading him to conclude it was indeed the latter that had betrayed Harry's parents, in the process framing their old friend Sirius Black for the crime.[13] This would go a long way towards repairing the rift between the two co-creators of the map.

Lupin would return the map to Harry before leaving Hogwarts at the end of the year. He saw no regret in doing so since he was no longer a teacher. He also stated that he had no further use for the map himself. He firmly believed that the map would prove invaluable to Harry in the years to come.[14]

Harry Map Header
Harry using the map to spy on the castle's inhabitants

During his fourth year, Harry used the map to help him as he sneaked into the prefects' bathroom to work on his clue for the Second Task of the Triwizard Tournament. On his way back, he dropped the map, and it was almost taken by Severus Snape. Harry was saved by Barty Crouch Jnr, disguised as Professor Alastor "Mad-Eye" Moody, who pretended it was his.

Due to the map's flaw, it could not differentiate between the Junior and Senior Crouches. Crouch later asked to borrow the map from a reluctant Harry. After Crouch was unmasked, he noted that the map nearly ruined his master's plan, but managed to turn it into an advantage by keeping track of his father's arrival.[15] Harry later retrieved the map from the empty office used by Crouch.[4]

Dumbledore's Army with close-up look at Harry Potter and Nigel (HP5)
The map being used during a D.A. meeting

In Harry's fifth year, he started teaching Defence Against the Dark Arts to a variety of students, some even older than him, as part of Dumbledore's Army. This organisation was illegal, as it went directly against Dolores Umbridge's rules and, if caught, punishment was unavoidable. As such, Harry would often use the map during D.A. meetings as a means of keeping track of the Inquisitorial Squad and Filch.

Nigel Wolpert (who liked to stay next to Harry during meetings) also assisted him by acting as a look-out as the students left the Room of Requirement at the end of the meetings using the map. Nigel was very committed to this task. The map played an instrumental role in keeping the members of the D.A. from getting caught by Umbridge, Filch, and her Squad of Slytherin students.[16]

During Harry's sixth year, he used the map often when he spent a great deal of time obsessing over Draco Malfoy's daily activities. When monitoring Draco, Harry found he often disappeared off the map.[17] The cause of this was not revealed until after he asked Dobby to trail Draco to find out what he was doing when he disappeared off the map. Dobby discovered that Draco was disappearing into the Room of Requirement, which was not on the Marauder's Map.[18] Whether because it was Unplottable or the Marauders never found the room is unspecified.

Dh marauder's map
Hermione and Ron search for Harry with the map

While on the run looking for Horcruxes, Harry would often look at the map to see what Ginny Weasley, his love interest, was doing, which indicated that the map would work from any location.[19]

Moments before the start of the Battle of Hogwarts, Harry briefly used the map to search for Ron and Hermione but he could not find them as they were, at the time, in the Chamber of Secrets collecting Basilisk fangs with which they could destroy the last of Lord Voldemort's Horcruxes.[20]

Harry Potter's legacy
After Harry's defeat of Lord Voldemort during the Battle of Hogwarts, the map would not have been used for many years. Eventually, James Sirius Potter probably stole the map from his father's desk.[2]

The Calamity
During the Calamity, which happened throughout the wizarding world during the 2010s, a mysterious Foundable of the Marauder's Map appeared in the world, trapped in a magical storm Confoundable. Volunteer wizards and witches who worked for the Statute of Secrecy Task Force had to free the map Foundable using the counter-charm meteolojinx recanto to stop the storm and return the map to its original place.[21]

Alternate reality
In an alternate reality accidentally created by Albus Potter and Scorpius Malfoy, Harry wanted to keep the two apart due to his prejudice against the Slytherin House, which Scorpius was sorted into. To this end, he forced Headmistress Minerva McGonagall to use the Marauder's Map to keep an eye out on the two boys, threatening to use the entire might of the Ministry against Hogwarts if she refused. Minerva reluctantly complied.[22]

McGonagall carried out this order rather halfheartedly, using the map a few times, and on one occasion ignored the two as they were under the Cloak of Invisibility, thus justifying that she did not see them together.[23] She eventually returned the map to Harry, making it clear she wanted no part in ruining the friendship of the boy.[24]

Usage
The Marauder's Map closing
The map unfolded

The map was normally disguised as a blank piece of parchment. To view the map, one would tap it with one's wand and recite, "I solemnly swear that I am up to no good." The content of the map would then reveal itself.[1]

To hide the contents of the map so the parchment appeared blank again, one would again tap it and recite, "Mischief managed."

An added bonus was that, if the bearer of the map approached the entrance to a secret passage protected by a password, the password would appear on the map (usually as a speech bubble that appeared close to the dot representing the map's holder).

Exceptions to use
"I solemnly swear that I am up to no good."
— The words to reveal the map[src]
In some rare cases, the map could not be used to the best of its ability. Heading out through the secret passage from the Whomping Willow to the Shrieking Shack would make the person disappear, as Snape mentioned in the spring of 1994, so the Shrieking Shack went off the edge of the map and was not included. It also did not show any person that was inside the Room of Requirement, as the Room was unplottable and it itself did not show up on the map, or the Chamber of Secrets, as it was very unlikely that any of the creators of the map knew of its existence at the time that the map was made.

Additionally, the map did not differentiate between two people with the same name. This was the case with Barty Crouch Jnr, who was simply shown as "Bartemius Crouch" on the map (instead of "Bartemius Crouch Jnr"). This led Harry Potter to believe that Barty Crouch Snr was in Hogwarts, when he was actually at his own home at the time and under the Imperius Curse.[25]

Harry-potter3 map pettigrew
The map identifying Pettigrew when in Animagus form

Similarly, it identifies Animagi by their actual name even when they are in their transformed state.[12] It was by this mechanism that Lupin was able to identify Peter Pettigrew's presence at Hogwarts despite Pettigrew being presumed dead.[13]

Special abilities of the map
The map was enchanted to insult Severus Snape if he ever came into possession of it and attempted to use it. It did this when Snape confiscated the map from Harry Potter and attempted to discover what information it contained, but it simply insulted him as an ugly git.[12][4] Snape was able to make use of the map later during the 1993–1994 school year after finding it abandoned in its activated state on the desk of Remus Lupin, who had left it upon spotting Peter Pettigrew in the Shrieking Shack. It is not clear if Snape would have been able to activate the map himself, had he known how.

The map also showed how to access the sealed passages by showing the password required to unseal it (displayed as a minuscule speech balloon shown close to the dot representing the user of the map that appeared when the map's holder came close to the available passages).

More importantly, the map showed the name and location of every person within the Hogwarts grounds, even if they were wearing an Invisibility Cloak (as demonstrated when Lupin saw Harry, Ron Weasley, and Hermione Granger sneaking to Rubeus Hagrid's cabin under Harry's Invisibility Cloak), transformed Animagi (evidenced by Lupin seeing Peter Pettigrew return to the school grounds from Hagrid's despite being disguised as the rat Scabbers at the time), or under the influence of the Polyjuice Potion (as demonstrated when Harry saw Barty Crouch Jnr, at the time disguised as Alastor Moody, ransacking Snape's office for more Polyjuice ingredients).