Professor Neville Longbottom (b. 30 July 1980)[1][2] was a British pure-blood[3] wizard, the only child and son of Frank and Alice Longbottom. Neville's parents were well-respected Aurors and members of the original Order of the Phoenix until they were tortured into insanity by Bellatrix Lestrange and three other Death Eaters with the Cruciatus Curse when he was about sixteen months old. They were placed in the Janus Thickey Ward at St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries, leaving Neville to be raised by his paternal grandmother, Augusta Longbottom.

At the time of his birth, Neville was marked by a prophecy as being one of two children with the potential to defeat Lord Voldemort, the most powerful and feared Dark wizard in the world. However, Voldemort's first attempt to circumvent the prophecy by killing Neville's later friend and classmate Harry Potter, ultimately established Harry as Voldemort's nemesis.

Neville began school at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry in 1991 and was Sorted into Gryffindor House, along with Harry Potter, Hermione Granger, and Ronald Weasley. Throughout his school years, he was mostly a shy, clumsy, introverted boy who was constantly being told by his grandmother that he was not good enough or living up to his parents' accomplishments. However, in his later years, he showed that he possessed great courage and perseverance: he became an important member of Dumbledore's Army, an organisation taught and led by Harry Potter with the goal of helping other students learn spells to attack and defend themselves.

Neville would later fight in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries (1996), the Battle of the Astronomy Tower (1997), and the Battle of Hogwarts (1998). During the Battle of Hogwarts, having refused Voldemort's invitation to join the Death Eaters, he destroyed the seventh and final Horcrux when he beheaded the snake Nagini. He also co-led the D.A. during his final year in opposition to the Death Eater professors.

After the end of the Second Wizarding War, Neville briefly served as an Auror,[11] before becoming the Herbology professor and the Head of Gryffindor House[5] at Hogwarts and marrying Hannah Abbott from Hufflepuff. He was also the godfather of Harry and Ginny's second son, Albus Potter.

Biography
Early life (1980–1991)
"The one with the power to vanquish the Dark Lord approaches... Born to those who have thrice defied him, born as the seventh month dies...and the Dark Lord will mark him as his equal, but he will have power the Dark Lord knows not...and either must die at the hand of the other for neither can live while the other survives... The one with the power to vanquish the Dark Lord will be born as the seventh month dies."
— Sybill Trelawney's first prophecy[src]
Longbottom family portrait
Infant Neville with his mother and father

Neville Longbottom was born on 30 July 1980 to Frank and Alice Longbottom, a pair of Aurors.[1][2] Moments after his birth, Neville was able to adjust his blankets so that he was swaddled more snugly, but no one witnessed this unusually precocious display of underage magic.[13] The midwife who attended the birth assumed that his father had tucked him in more tightly.[13] Neville was born "several hours" before his classmate, Harry.

As a pure-blood wizard, he was likely related to other wizarding families such as the Weasleys, Crouches, Potters, and the Blacks. Neville's parents were members of the Order of the Phoenix and in these roles, they defied Lord Voldemort at least three times. Neville was one of two infants referred to in a prophecy made by Sybill Trelawney about the person with the power to defeat the Dark Lord. The other was Harry Potter, and it was Harry whom Voldemort targeted on 31 October 1981 making Harry his equal and leading to his first defeat.[2]

Shortly after, a handful of Voldemort's most loyal followers attacked the Longbottoms. Frank and Alice were tortured into insanity with the Cruciatus Curse by Death Eaters Bellatrix Lestrange, her husband Rodolphus Lestrange, her brother-in-law Rabastan Lestrange, and Barty Crouch Jnr. The four Death Eaters were all sentenced to Azkaban for their crimes, while Frank and Alice were sent to St Mungo's Hospital, where they would live the rest of their lives, not being able to recognise their own son. Neville was subsequently raised by his paternal grandmother, Augusta Longbottom. At some point early in his life, he also witnessed the death of his grandfather.[14]

Neville's grandmother was a stern and formidable woman who was concerned when her grandson did not exhibit early signs of magic (Neville did, however, show faint signs of magic in him throughout his early years, something which his family persistently missed — the first such sign took place moments after birth, when Neville managed to magically shift his blankets more snugly over himself, something which went unnoticed by midwife who attended his mother).[13] She often chided Neville for not living up to his family's honour and was partly the reason for Neville's lack of self-confidence early in his school years.

His relatives feared that Neville might be a Squib, though this was disproved when his great-uncle Algie was holding him out of a window by his feet when he was offered some lemon meringue and let go. Miraculously, Neville bounced. Previous to this, there were various attempts to make him show signs of magic, including dropping him off Blackpool pier, where, according to Neville, he nearly drowned. Neville inherited his father's wand at the age of eleven when he started to attend Hogwarts. This wand was later broken during the Battle of the Department of Mysteries.

Neville Longbottom HM
A young Neville before starting Hogwarts

During a Christmas season in the 1980s, Neville travelled with his grandmother to St Mungo's to visit his parents for the holidays. However, he soon became separated from her and ended up lost in the hospital. Fortunately, Neville encountered Jacob's sibling, who was searching for the Janus Thickey Ward in order to deliver Wizard Crackers to the patients there on behalf of Rubeus Hagrid. After explaining his situation to Jacob's sibling and introducing himself to them, Jacob's sibling recalled that two patients with the last name "Longbottom" resided in the Janus Thickey Ward and was able to help Neville locate them, to Neville's great relief. Neville offered to let Jacob's sibling meet his parents, informing them of their status as respected Aurors who fought evildoers until the end. He stated that he was proud to be their son and knew that they loved him, even if they couldn't recognise him.[15]

Augusta and Neville SnitchSeeker
Neville with his grandmother at platform 9¾ before boarding the Hogwarts Express

Neville asserted that he wanted to grow up to be just like his parents one day, but was afraid he would simply be a disappointment due to Augusta previously claiming that he had a lot to live up to. With some encouragement from Jacob's sibling, however, Neville promised to practise hard until he made his family proud. Jacob's sibling offered Neville a Wizard Cracker, which the boy happily accepted. However, he decided to wait to open it until Christmas morning so that his parents and grandmother could all see and to allow him to hold on to the happy feeling of the present just a little bit longer. Neville assured Jacob's sibling that he would be alright now and that his grandmother should be arriving at the ward soon, although he worried she would be upset at him for getting lost. Jacob's sibling reassured Neville that Augusta would simply be happy to see Neville again before the two wished each other a happy Christmas and went their separate ways.[15]

Hogwarts years (1991–1998)
First year
"You can't go out, you'll be caught again. Gryffindor will be in even more trouble... I won't let you do it. I'll — I'll fight you!"
— Neville bravely standing up to his friends[src]
Neville began attending Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry on 1 September 1991. While with his grandmother at platform 9¾, he lost his toad Trevor. Once on the train, he met Hermione Granger, who agreed to help him find his lost toad, and then Harry Potter and Ron Weasley when he entered their compartment tearfully looking for Trevor. After arriving at Hogsmeade station, Neville managed to retrieve his toad from Rubeus Hagrid.[16]

Neville being Sorted
Neville being Sorted in 1991

Neville felt intimidated by Gryffindor's reputation for bravery. During the Sorting Ceremony, he silently argued for a long time to be placed in Hufflepuff, but the Sorting Hat won in the end, and Sorted him into Gryffindor.[17] Neville was so nervous that when the Sorting Hat shouted out his house, he ran across the Great Hall with the Hat still on his head; he had to return to the stool to hand the Hat to the next student.[12] On the way to Gryffindor Tower after the Start-of-Term Feast, Neville had a bundle of walking sticks dropped on his head by Peeves the Poltergeist.

Neville Longbottom losing control of his broom PSF
Neville losing control of his broom during his first flying lesson

Much of his first year was plagued by similar mishaps. In his first Potions lesson, Neville melted Seamus Finnigan's cauldron, and was subsequently drenched in the boil-curing potion they had been brewing.[18] The following week, in his first flying lesson with Madam Hooch, Neville accidentally broke his wrist after falling off his broom from a great height; afraid of being left behind on the ground, he had pushed off too early. He was taken to the hospital wing and his wrist was healed. Several hours later, he ended up heading to the Hogwarts Trophy Room with Harry, Ron, and Hermione for Harry's duel with Draco Malfoy. Nearly getting caught by caretaker Argus Filch, they end up in the forbidden third floor corridor, where Neville drew Harry's attention to a giant three-headed dog. They managed to escape and safely return to Gryffindor Tower.[19]

That year, Neville received a Remembrall from his grandmother as a gift which was flown in by an owl. This particular gift later allowed Harry Potter to become Gryffindor seeker. Draco Malfoy threw the small sphere into the air, and Harry flew to grab it, standing up for Neville. Minerva McGonagall saw how easily Harry retrieved the ball and asked him to join the team.[19]

Neville got a Leg-Locker Curse (1991)
Neville's legs stuck together with the Leg-Locker Curse

Shortly after the Christmas holidays, Neville was the target of a cruel prank by Draco Malfoy, in which his legs were stuck together with the Leg-Locker Curse. Neville had to bunny-hop all the way to Gryffindor Tower so someone could perform the counter-curse. When Harry, Ron, and Hermione urged him to report Malfoy, Neville replied that he didn't want more trouble. Harry gave Neville his last Chocolate Frog from Christmas and consoled him by telling that he was worth twelve Malfoys, and that the Sorting Hat chose him for Gryffindor, while Malfoy was in "stinking Slytherin". Several seconds later, Neville inadvertently helped the trio identify Nicolas Flamel when he gave Harry Dumbledore's collectible card from the Chocolate Frog.[20]

Harry-potter1-Quidditch cheering
Neville cheering on the Gryffindor Quidditch Team during a match

Neville was sent to the hospital wing a third time after a Quidditch match between Gryffindor and Hufflepuff. During the match, Malfoy began to taunt the Gryffindor Quidditch team, as well as Neville. Neville challenged Malfoy on hearing this, and single-handedly took on Malfoy's friends Vincent Crabbe and Gregory Goyle, while Ron fought Malfoy. Although he was knocked out by Crabbe and Goyle, Madam Pomfrey insisted that Neville would make a full recovery. This was the first time that Neville stood up for himself.[21]

In time, Neville learned about Harry and Hermione's attempt to take Norbert the Norwegian Ridgeback up to the Astronomy Tower to send to Ron's brother Charlie. When he learned Malfoy was trying to get them caught, Neville snuck out of Gryffindor Tower to find them and warn them. He instead ended up getting caught by Professor McGonagall. He lost fifty House points, and was put in detention with Harry, Hermione, and Malfoy. Sent into the Forbidden Forest with Hagrid to search for an injured unicorn, Neville and Malfoy went along one path with Fang, while the other three took another. When Malfoy snuck up behind Neville and grabbed him to scare him, Neville panicked and sent up wand sparks to warn Hagrid. When Hagrid learned the truth, he instead paired Neville with himself and Hermione.[22]

HermionePetrificusTotalus
Hermione casting the Full Body-Bind Curse on Neville

The night Quirinus Quirrell attempted to steal the Philosopher's Stone, Neville followed Harry's advice and attempted to stop Harry, Ron, and Hermione from sneaking out, though he did not know what they were trying to do. However, he thought that they should not be breaking rules and risking that Gryffindor would lose more points, and blocked the portrait hole, willing to fight them to make them stay. Hermione apologised and struck Neville with a Full Body-Bind Curse so that she, Harry, and Ron could leave. This was another early instance where Neville showed bravery, standing up to his only friends.[23] It is unknown who eventually removed the curse from Neville after the trio left.

For standing up to the trio, Neville won ten points for Gryffindor at the end-of-term feast. Having moments before, tied Slytherin for the House Cup, this pushed Gryffindor into undisputed first place. In the final exams, he scored well in Herbology, making up for his poor marks in Potions.[24]

Second year
"You'd better open it, Ron. It'll be worse if you don't. My gran sent me one once, and I ignored it and — it was horrible."
— Neville telling Ron about Howlers[src]
PixiesWreakingHavoc
Neville and his classmates in Gilderoy Lockhart's first Defence Against the Dark Arts lesson

In 1992, after the Start-of-Term Feast, he applauded Harry and Ron for flying a car to Hogwarts. The following morning when Ron received a Howler from his mother, Neville warned him to open it quickly.[25]

In Gilderoy Lockhart's first Defence Against the Dark Arts class, a pair of "freshly caught" Cornish pixies picked Neville up by the ears and hung him, by his cloak, from a chandelier. Moments later, he crashed back to the ground when the chandelier collapsed.[25]

After the Basilisk attack on Colin Creevey, Neville feared that he might be attacked, due to his poor magical skills, and tried to protect himself by purchasing a large, "evil-smelling" green onion, a pointed purple crystal, and a rotting newt tail. However the other students pointed out that Neville should be all right; he was a pure-blood and thus unlikely to be attacked. However, he thought he was very close to being a Squib and was still in danger anyway.[26]

B2C11M2 Great Hall Duelling Club
The first and last meeting of the Duelling Club that Neville attended

Neville attended the first (and only) meeting of Lockhart's Duelling Club. To practise the Disarming Charm, Neville was paired with Justin Finch-Fletchley. When Lockhart suggested the pair to volunteer spell blocking, Snape shot this down, claiming that Neville had difficulty with the simplest spells, and they would have to send what was left of Justin to the hospital wing in a matchbox.[26]

Shortly after Valentine's Day, Neville informed Harry that his belongings had been searched by someone.[27]

Neville would have attended the end of term feast that year, having thankfully not been attacked or petrified by the Basilisk, and would have been present when all his classmates who had been petrified returned to full health after being cured by Mandrake Restorative Draughts, and would have been there to greet Rubeus Hagrid following his release from Azkaban.

Third year
Severus Snape: "Possibly no one's warned you, Lupin, but this class contains Neville Longbottom. I would advise you not to entrust him with anything difficult. Not unless Miss Granger is hissing instructions in his ear."
Remus Lupin: "I was hoping that Neville would assist me with the first stage of the operation, and I am sure he will perform it admirably."
— A reference to Neville's skill as a wizard[src]
B3C5M7 Dementor on Hogwarts Express
Dementors entering the compartment that the trio, Neville, Ginny, and Professor Lupin were in

On the train ride to Hogwarts for his third year, Neville became alarmed when the Hogwarts Express simply stopped. He entered the compartment Harry Potter, Hermione Granger, Ron, and Ginny Weasley were in to find out what had happened. A Dementor then entered the compartment, negatively affecting all the students within, though to varying degrees. After expelling the Dementor, the new Professor Remus Lupin gave them chocolate telling them it would help them feel better about the shock. Upon arriving at Hogsmeade Station, Neville told people about the experience in the compartment.[28] This made its way to Draco Malfoy, who taunted Harry about fainting.[29]

B3C6M2 Trelawney's first Divination lesson in the trio's third year
Neville's first Divination class

In their first Divination class, Neville accidentally broke two of Professor Trelawney's tea cups while reading tea leaves. As the class departed, Professor Trelawney warned him that he would be late next class and urged him to work hard to catch up with everyone else. In Care of Magical Creatures class, Neville practised bowing to a hippogriff; he constantly backed away from the beast, which did not seem to want to bow back.[29]

The next day in Potions, Neville again managed to earn the ire of Professor Snape. He somehow was able to turn his Shrinking Solution orange instead of green. To ensure Neville would get the potion right, Snape told him that he would feed some of it to Neville's pet toad, Trevor, at the end of the class. Desperately, he asked Hermione for help; she whispered instructions to him out of the corner of her mouth. By the end of class, he was able to turn his potion green, and successfully shrunk Trevor from a toad to a tadpole. Upon returning Trevor to his proper size, Snape took five points from Hermione simply to spite the Gryffindors.[8]

Neville's boggart
Neville's Boggart, Professor Snape

Later that day, Neville helped Professor Lupin's first practical Defence Against the Dark Arts lesson about boggarts, being the first person to be asked. This was most likely because of Professor Lupin's preference for the underdog and him wanting to build Neville's confidence. When asked what scared him most in the world, Neville replied "Professor Snape", to which everyone found amusing. To counter the boggart, Lupin asked Neville to picture Snape in his grandmother's clothes. For his help, Neville earned ten points for Gryffindor and he confidently banished the boggart at the end of class.[8]

Gryffindor common room 1993
McGonagall and the residents of Gryffindor Tower in the common room after Sirius Black's break-in

In the spring of 1994, Neville lost the passwords to Gryffindor Tower; because Sir Cadogan changed them so frequently, Neville needed to write them down so he could remember them.[30] After the passwords disappeared, Sirius Black managed to enter Gryffindor Tower with a knife. After learning Neville was indirectly responsible, Professor McGonagall banned him from all future visits into Hogsmeade for the remainder of the school year, gave him a detention, and forbade anyone from giving him the password to the common room, thus he had to wait outside the portrait until someone came by while security trolls hired to guard the Fat Lady leered unpleasantly at him.

Two days later during breakfast, Neville received a Howler from his grandmother; he tore out of the Great Hall, amid shouts of laughter, and opened it in the Entrance Hall, where his grandmother's angry voice told him he brought shame to their family.[31]

At the end of his Divination final exam, Neville was told that, if he told anyone his results, he would suffer a serious accident.[32]

Fourth year
Hermione Granger: "Neville, are you all right?"
Neville: "Oh, yes, I'm fine. Very interesting dinner — I mean lesson — what's for eating?"
— Neville in an "unnaturally high voice" after a lesson on the Unforgivable Curses[src]
In 1994, Neville did not get to go to the Quidditch World Cup; his grandmother had not wanted to go, and did not purchase tickets. Later, he met up with Harry, Ron, and Hermione on the Hogwarts Express. He jealously listened to their recap of the World Cup.[33] He was also awestruck by Ron's miniature figurine of Viktor Krum.[33]

Fourth year DADA
"Moody" demonstrating the Cruciatus Curse on a spider

In "Mad-Eye" Moody's first Defence Against the Dark Arts class, Neville was able to supply information about the Unforgivable Curses, in particular the Cruciatus Curse. When Professor Moody demonstrated the curse on a spider, Neville was terrified; he gripped his desk so hard, his knuckles turned white. Hermione noticed this and called for the professor to stop. After class, Moody — who was in fact Barty Crouch Jnr, one of the attackers of Neville's parents, under disguise by use of Polyjuice Potion — took Neville to his office for a cup of tea.

Neville talks to Harry
Neville talking with Harry before the second task

Having heard from Professor Sprout about Neville's aptitude in Herbology, Moody cheered Neville up by telling him what Sprout had said and gave him a number of books he thought Neville would enjoy. One of them was Magical Water Plants of the Mediterranean, which Crouch intended for Harry to read in order to learn all about Gillyweed and therefore succeed in the second task,[34] as part of the plan to make Harry win the Tournament and be transported to Little Hangleton, where his blood would be used in the ritual to bring Lord Voldemort back.

A few days later in class, Neville was put under the Imperius Curse by Moody, under the pretence of letting the class know what it felt like. Under Moody's influence, Neville performed a series of "quite astonishing gymnastics" that he could not have performed normally.[35]

Yule ball2
Neville and Ginny Weasley at the Yule Ball

When the Yule Ball was announced during the Triwizard Tournament, Neville asked Hermione to go with him. After Hermione politely declined, having already agreed to attend with Viktor Krum, Neville asked Ginny Weasley. While the pair seemed to enjoy themselves, Neville accidentally stepped on Ginny's toes while dancing.[36]

Fifth year
Neville: "We were all in the D.A. together. It was all supposed to be about fighting You-Know-Who, wasn't it? And this is the first chance we've had to do something real — or was that all just a game or something?"
Harry Potter: "No — of course it wasn't —"
Neville: "Then we should come too. We want to help."
— Neville insisting on going with the trio to the Department of Mysteries[src]
Fifth year Hogwarts carriage
Neville with the trio and Luna on the school's carriages

In 1995, Neville met with Harry and Ginny on the Hogwarts Express. Searching for seats, the trio entered Luna Lovegood's compartment. Once inside, he excitedly showed them his Mimbulus mimbletonia, a birthday present from his great-uncle Algie. He told them about his plans to show it to Professor Sprout, as well as wanting to breed it.[37] After Neville pricked it, the plant released Stinksap onto everyone present, but Ginny quickly vanished the odorous substance using magic.[37]

After arriving at Hogwarts, Neville helped Harry get into Gryffindor Tower as Harry had not learned the new password yet, and then defended Harry during a verbal fight with Seamus Finnigan, claiming that the Daily Prophet was going downhill, not Harry and Dumbledore. He and his grandmother both believed Harry's claim that Voldemort had returned, and had cancelled their subscription to the newspaper.[38]

OOTP DA Neville Disarming Parvati
Neville finally mastering the Disarming Charm during a D.A. meeting

When Harry, Ron, and Hermione began organising Dumbledore's Army, Neville was among the first to sign up. At their first meeting in the Room of Requirement, Neville was left partner-less when they began practice; Neville instead partnered with Harry. After successfully disarming Harry, Neville then joined Ron and Hermione, so Harry could check on the others.[39] With Harry's encouragement, by the beginning of Christmas break, Neville had improved "beyond all recognition."[40]

B5C23M1 Christmas at St Mungo's
Neville and his grandmother visiting St Mungo's

During Christmas break, Ron, Hermione, and Ginny learned that Neville's parents were not dead, but patients in St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries, having gone insane after being tortured by a group of Death Eaters at the end of the First Wizarding War. Harry was the only one who already knew this, having found out in the Pensieve the previous year, but he had told no one, keeping Neville's secret safe. Before Neville left, his mother handed him an empty Droobles Blowing Gum wrapper; while his grandmother wanted him to throw it away, Neville instead pocketed it.[41]

When it was learned that ten Death Eaters escaped from Azkaban in 1996, including three of the ones responsible for the torture of Neville's parents, Neville did not speak of it, but it "wrought a strange and even slightly alarming change" in him, according to Harry. He worked harder than anyone in D.A. meetings, and was the fastest to pick up new spells aside from Hermione.[42]

When on 18 June Harry had a vision that Sirius Black was tortured by Voldemort in the Department of Mysteries at the Ministry of Magic, he informed Ron and Hermione. The latter convinced Harry to check to see if Sirius was at 12 Grimmauld Place before rushing off to rescue him, and Ginny and Luna came to their assistance. Harry and Hermione broke into the office of the authoritarian Ministry-appointed Headmistress and High Inquisitor Dolores Umbridge, who had been silencing and ruthlessly punishing anyone who opposed the Ministry's ways and narrative, targeting especially Harry and his friends. Ron wanted to trick Umbridge so Harry could use her fireplace, the only one in the school that was not tracked, to contact Sirius and Lupin via the Floo Network, while Ginny and Luna stopped people from entering the corridor. Umbridge unfortunately was not fooled and ordered her Inquisitorial Squad to round them up. Neville, seeing what is going on, tried to help, but he was caught as well.[43]

Thestral on air
Neville riding on a Thestral on the way to the Department of Mysteries

When Harry and Hermione lured Umbridge into the Forbidden Forest, Neville, Ron, Ginny, and Luna stayed alone with the Inquisitorial Squad. Neville and others broke free using skills that they had acquired in their D.A. sessions; Neville used a good Impediment Jinx. They then regrouped with Harry and Hermione, who had left Umbridge with a group of enraged centaurs. They flew via Thestrals to London, despite Harry's reluctance to let them accompany him.[44]

Neville threatening Bellatrix GIF
Neville meeting Bellatrix Lestrange face-to-face in the Hall of Prophecy

Once in the Hall of Prophecies, Harry was drawn to an orb that had his name on it. Neville and Hermione urged him not to remove it; once Harry had, the group was confronted by Death Eaters.[45] In the subsequent battle, Neville accompanied Harry and Hermione. They run into the Time Room, where he disarmed Rabastan Lestrange who was struggling with Harry, accidentally disarming Harry as well. Wanting to fix his mistake he tried to stun Lestrange, but he hit a rack full of time-turners. Escaping from the room he was hit by Impediment Jinx by Antonin Dolohov and Jugson, same as Harry and Hermione.

When Hermione cast the Silencing Charm on Dolohov and Harry placed Jugson under Full Body-Bind, Dolohov cursed Hermione. Taking advantage of the moment Neville crawled from under the desk, but Dolohov broke Neville's nose and wand, so Harry placed Dolohov under Body-Bind as well. Neville refused Harry's suggestion that he leave with an incapacitated Hermione to go get help, instead carrying her while he and Harry searched for Ron, Ginny, and Luna. When several Death Eaters cornered Harry alone in the Death Chamber, Neville stormed into the room to aid him, armed with Hermione's wand, but due to his broken nose, was unable to pronounce spells correctly.[46]

Order-of-the-phoenix neville bellatrix
Bellatrix Lestrange threatening Neville during the Battle of the Department of Mysteries

When another Death Eater seized Neville, Bellatrix Lestrange briefly tortured Neville with the Cruciatus Curse, both to try to make Harry hand over the prophecy and to see how long Neville held out before "cracking" like his parents. Even under the threat of being tortured (possibly even going insane like his parents), Neville told Harry not to hand the prophecy over.[46]

After the Order of the Phoenix members arrived, Harry tried to get out with Neville, but was stopped by Walden Macnair. Harry urged Neville to run, but Neville refused, instead breaking Macnair's grip on Harry by jabbing the Death Eater in the eye with Hermione's wand. Then Neville was struck with the Dancing Feet Spell by Dolohov, but Harry placed Dolohov under Body-Bind again.[47] Moments later they were attacked by Lucius Malfoy. Harry threw Neville the prophecy to cast the Impediment Jinx on Malfoy. As Harry pulled Neville up a flight of stairs, Neville accidentally smashed the prophecy. As the battle continued, Neville alerted Harry to the appearance of Albus Dumbledore. The battle soon ended, and Neville and his friends were transported back to Hogwarts, where Neville's nose was fixed by Poppy Pomfrey.[48]

Harry soon learned the contents of the prophecy from Dumbledore. As both Neville and Harry were born at the close of July to parents who had all escaped Voldemort three times, they both qualified for the prophecy child. However, Dumbledore believed that the prophecy did indeed refer to Harry, not Neville, as Voldemort marked Harry as his equal by attacking him.[2]

Neville's grandmother purchased him a new wand, 13" cherry wood, with a unicorn hair core, from Garrick Ollivander before his sixth year.

Sixth year
Luna Lovegood: "People expect you to have cooler friends than us."
Harry Potter: "You are cool. None of them were at the Ministry. They didn't fight with me."
Luna Lovegood: "That's a very nice thing to say."
Neville: "We didn't face him, though. You did. You should hear my gran talk about you. 'That Harry Potter's got more backbone than the whole Ministry of Magic put together!' She'd give anything to have you as a grandson..."
— Harry insisting that Neville and Luna were cool friends[src]
Harry-potter-half-blood-romilda, lavender, and Demelza
Neville at the 1996 Start-of-Term Feast

On 1 September, 1996, Neville sat with Harry Potter and Luna Lovegood on the Hogwarts Express, where both of them expressed disappointment that Harry did not plan to continue D.A. meetings during their sixth year. When Romilda Vane, a younger Gryffindor student, invited Harry to come to her compartment and implicitly insulted Neville and Luna, Harry coldly rebuffed her, emphasising that Neville and Luna were among his closest and most loyal friends. Neville was later invited to join Horace Slughorn, the new Potions Master, in his train compartment. Slughorn was searching for new students to add to his Slug Club, but Neville didn't seem to meet Slughorn's requirements.[49]

Harry-potter-half-blood-lavender neville
Neville behind Lavender Brown in the Gryffindor common room

Neville also achieved four known O.W.L.s: one 'Outstanding', two 'Exceeds Expectations', and one 'Acceptable'. The classes he were cleared to take were Herbology, Charms, and Defence Against the Dark Arts. Professor McGonagall informed him that the 'Acceptable' grade he achieved in Transfiguration was not good enough for N.E.W.T.-level, and he would not be able to keep up with the course work. McGonagall also stated that Professor Sprout would be delighted to see Neville back with an 'Outstanding' Herbology O.W.L.. He told her he only applied for Transfiguration for his grandmother's desires, but McGonagall stated it was time for Augusta to be proud of the grandson she had, as opposed to the one she desired. She let him down gently on his application on Transfiguration, and instead encouraged him to take Charms.[50]

Main article: Battle of the Astronomy Tower
B6C30M1 funeral of Albus Dumbledore
The funeral of Albus Dumbledore

Towards the end of the school year, Neville participated in the Battle of the Astronomy Tower. Along with Luna Lovegood, he was the only member of Dumbledore's Army to reply to the summons via the coins. Neville stood guard outside the Room of Requirement with Ron and Ginny, waiting for Draco Malfoy, who evaded them by using Peruvian Instant Darkness Powder. Neville suffered an injury that kept him in the hospital wing for some time, though he was able to attend the funeral of Albus Dumbledore shortly afterwards, where Luna helped him into his seat.[51]

Seventh year
"Alecto, Amycus's sister, teaches Muggle Studies, which is compulsory for everyone. We've all got to listen to her explain how Muggles are like animals, stupid and dirty, and how they drive wizards into hiding by being vicious toward them, and how the natural order is being reestablished. I got this one (indicates to a large gash on his cheek) for asking her how much Muggle blood she and her brother have got."
— Neville explaining Hogwarts new regime and his stand against the Carrows[src]
Neville on hogwarts express
Neville scorning Death Eaters searching for Harry Potter on the Hogwarts Express

On 1 August 1997, Lord Voldemort took over the Ministry of Magic. While Muggle-borns were rounded up and Harry, Ron, and Hermione went on the run to search for Voldemort's Horcruxes, Neville returned to Hogwarts, and, along with Ginny and Luna, restarted Dumbledore's Army. The D.A. opposed the new headmaster, Severus Snape, and the two new Death Eater professors, Alecto and Amycus Carrow, who taught anti-Muggle propaganda and the Dark Arts. Neville got in trouble with the Carrows for refusing to practise the Cruciatus Curse on other students as a method of punishment, as well as for standing up against their bigotry and cruelty.

The revived D.A. helped protect fellow students from being bullied by the Death Eater teachers, and generally rebelled against authority, such as writing "Dumbledore's Army, still recruiting" on the Hogwarts walls and freeing students from detention. Neville, Luna and Ginny also attempted to steal Godric Gryffindor's sword from Snape's office, but were caught on the way out. In his own way to subvert the Carrows' manner of discipline, Snape only gave them a detention, sending them into the Forbidden Forest with Hagrid. Neville eventually decided to cease their open rebellion after Michael Corner was caught and brutally tortured for freeing a chained-up first year.

Neville battered
A battered Neville, after being brutally punished by the Carrows

Neville was eventually left alone to lead the rebellion efforts, as Luna was dragged off the Hogwarts Express by Death Eaters around Christmas of 1997 to coerce her father into ceasing his political dissidence in The Quibbler, and Ginny did not return to Hogwarts following the Easter holidays, as her family went into hiding following Harry, Ron, and Hermione's escape from Malfoy Manor. By this time, the Carrows were aware of Neville's role in the rebellion, and he suffered beatings and torture. The Ministry also targeted Neville's grandmother to try to intimidate him, but she evaded capture and went on the run.

Eventually, the Carrows realised that Neville was the main ringleader and decided that Hogwarts could do without him. Fearing that they may kill him, Neville made for the Room of Requirement, which he was able to turn into a hiding place for the D.A., and to connect to the Hog's Head in order to get food from Aberforth Dumbledore. By May, most of the D.A. had taken to living there.[52]

Battle of Hogwarts
"The thing is, it helps when people stand up to them, it gives everyone hope. I used to notice that when you did it, Harry."
— Neville discussing the resistance to the Carrows at Hogwarts[src]
Trio in hogsmeade
The trio and Neville in the Hog's Head Inn

On 2 May 1998, Neville enthusiastically greeted Harry, Hermione, and Ron, and led them from the Hog's Head into the Room of Requirement. While in the tunnel he explained to the trio the nature of his injuries and the reign of the Carrows at Hogwarts. He also informed the trio that the D.A. had been reinstated and was currently resisting the new regime. Believing that their return meant the overthrow of the Death Eater professors, Neville signalled the rest of the D.A. to return to Hogwarts.[53] As students returned, along with the Order of the Phoenix, Voldemort and his Death Eater army approached, laying siege to the school in the hopes of capturing Harry Potter.[54]

During the first round of battle, Neville used various plants to attack Death Eaters, and helped transport the injured and dead when a temporary cease-fire was called. He briefly spoke to Harry, who told him that it was top priority to kill Voldemort's snake and Horcrux, Nagini.[55] When the Death Eaters approached with a "dead" Harry, Neville stood up in defiance of Voldemort. He was subsequently forced to wear the Sorting Hat as it burned because he refused to join Voldemort. Fortunately, due to Harry's sacrifice, Neville was able to shrug off the Full Body-Bind Curse with relative ease.[56]

Neville kills Nagini
Neville slaying Nagini with the Sword of Gryffindor

Because of his tremendous bravery shown on the battlefield, Neville was able to pull the Sword of Gryffindor from the burning hat, in the process proving himself a true Gryffindor, something that was doubted constantly throughout his academic career due to his apparently weak-willed, shy, and bumbling nature. In a single stroke, he carried out Harry's final order, slaying Nagini, destroying Voldemort's last remaining Horcrux. Neville subsequently teamed up with Ron Weasley as the defenders of Hogwarts and Death Eaters were forced into the Great Hall and defeated Fenrir Greyback. Also during the Battle Neville duelled Scabior on the Covered Bridge. Scabior fell to his death when the bridge fell down.[56]

Neville witnessed Harry's final defeat of Voldemort and survived the Second Wizarding War.

After the war (1998–)
"Neville Longbottom, now a popular Herbology teacher at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry, is here in Patagonia with his wife Hannah. Until recently the pair lived above the Leaky Cauldron in London, but rumour has it that Hannah has not only retrained as a Healer, but is applying for the job of Matron at Hogwarts. Idle gossip suggests that she and her husband both enjoy a little more Ogden's Old Firewhisky than most of us would expect from custodians of our children, but no doubt we all wish her the best of luck with her application."
— Neville Longbottom's future career and marriage[src]
Career at Hogwarts
Professor Longbottom
Neville Longbottom as a Hogwarts professor

Neville briefly worked as an Auror, immediately following the war.[11] Sometime afterwards, he either sent an application to or was offered a place on the Hogwarts staff by Headmistress Minerva McGonagall, and ultimately landed a teaching job in the Herbology department,[4] under Head of Department, Pomona Sprout.[57]

Throughout his new career, his students would come to be impressed whenever he showed them his Dumbledore's Army coin, which he and other D.A. members kept as a keepsake and had come to be seen as something of a badge of honour.[58] Neville also became the Head of Gryffindor House after McGonagall went on to be Headmistress.[5]

2008–2009 school year
Neville Longbottom during Sorting Ceremony MA
Professor Longbottom during the Sorting Ceremony

Neville was present at the Sorting Ceremony in 2008, seated alongside his former professors and fellow Heads of House Pomona Sprout, Filius Flitwick and Horace Slughorn.[59] One day, he asked a first year student to help water Bowtruckle saplings. When they asked for a watering can, he suggested they use the Water-Making Spell instead because even though it was advanced, he knew Professor Flitwick was planning to introduce it earlier that year. When they tried to water a sapling, they accidentally hurt it which made it angry. Neville intervened to apologise and offered a treat as a peace offering before it decided to gouge out their eyes. Hagrid dropped off old flowerpots with bowtruckle feed in earlier, so Neville told the student to feed the Bowtruckles but to be careful because he caught a few gnomes trying to hide in the pots.[60]

After the term began, due to a mishap caused by a group of students, including Ivy Warrington who cast the Vanishing Spell and Vanished a suit of armour, Neville gave them detention, which was to polish the rest of the suits of armour without magic.[61]

Neville introducing Harry to students MA
Neville introducing Harry to students

Later in the school year, during a detention session, Neville introduced his old friend Harry Potter to the students when he visited the school. When an unidentified student realised they had seen Harry at King's Cross Station, Harry remarked they had been very confused, which Neville thought would happen to the best of them. Harry and Neville also recalled the numerous adventures they had gone through when they were in school, and Neville remarked that despite the experiences, they always tried to stay out of trouble, but he and Harry knew it couldn't have been true, which was also reflected on their faces. Neville then walked Harry out when he decided to leave.[61]

2010–2011 school year
Neville catching up students after duel in Hogsmeade MA
Neville catching up with students after their duel with the masked wizard

During the first Hogsmeade weekend trip in the 2010–2011 school year, Neville caught up with Ivy Warrington, Daniel Page and another student after they fought a masked wizard following a magical display that damaged a tree. He prompted Ivy to go to the Hospital Wing to fix her broken arm and the others to visit the Headmistress to tell the story, before noticing some red origami birds landing near them, which were signed by NOTME. He cast some spells to mend the damaged tree.[61]

Linderina Crane indicating Neville Longbottom's height MA
Linderina Crane gesturing Neville's height

Later in Herbology class when he was teaching about Mimbulus mimbletonia to third-year students, he was interrupted by Linderina Crane who came to investigate his role in the Hogsmeade incident, but since the last spells he had cast were for mending the tree in Hogsmeade, the Reverse Spell couldn't reveal anything related to damaging it even if he had done such a thing, and so the investigation was inconclusive.[61]

Linderina Crane interrupting Neville's class again MA
Linderina Crane interrupting Neville's class again

He was interrupted again by Crane in another class when talking about vampiric vegetation, and was asked about his storeroom. Though he denied there could be anything fishy going on, Crane still intended to check it out.[61] Crane was unrelenting in her search and continued to investigate.

Siege of Hogwarts MA
Neville participated in the Siege of Hogwarts

At some point amidst all this, Dementors initiated an attack on Hogwarts Castle. Neville was their first victim, being attacked by a Dementor when he was picking herbs with students in the Forbidden Forest. Rubeus Hagrid arrived soon enough and took Neville to the Hospital Wing. After he recovered, he participated in the all-out battle that followed.[61]

Neville talking with students about Mimbulus mimbletonia MA
Neville talking about the Mimbulus mimbletonia

Neville enlisted some students to help with caring for his Mimbulus mimbletonia over the winter. It bloomed in spring, and he held a Blooming Party for it. Everyone there cast the Bubble-Head Charm on themselves to block the foul odour of Stinksap, except Neville who had long grown accustomed to the smell.[61]

Neville controlled by Victor Gridley MA
Neville controlled by Victor Gridley

Unbeknownst to him, Victor Gridley and his associate Mr Pronk had been sneaked into Hogwarts by Daniel Page and attended his party in disguise. When another knowing student returned Gridley to his original look, he summoned Mr Pronk and kidnapped Neville. Gridley subsequently interrogated Neville, and found that he was genuinely ignorant about NOTME and his business affairs. He was put in the dungeon of Gridley's caravan along with Daniel's sister Esme.[61]

Neville punching Gridley unconscious MA
Neville punching Gridley unconscious

Neville remained unconscious when Daniel Page, Ivy Warrington and their friend arrived at the caravan dungeon to save him and Esme. At the end of their fight with Gridley and his Dementors, Neville's wand was taken by Gridley, who had had his own wand snapped in half by Daniel, but Neville then awakened and knocked Gridley out with his bare fist, ending the confrontation. Neville saw Esme's injuries and suggested she be treated at St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries which had wonderful Healers.[61]

Marriage
Ginny Potter: "Don't forget to give Neville our love!"
James Sirius: "Mum! I can't give a professor love..."
— Ginny and her son exchange goodbyes at Platform 9¾[src]
Sometime before 2014, he married his former classmate and D.A. member Hannah Abbott. The pair lived at the Leaky Cauldron, where she became the landlady.[62] Hannah had retired from being landlady as of 2014, she and Neville were childless and scathingly reported by Rita Skeeter as "enjoying a little more Ogden's Firewhisky than most would expect from custodians of our children".[63] Whether this was true or simply another scandalous rumour from Rita Skeeter is unknown. It was reported by Rita Skeeter that Neville was the godfather of Harry's second son, Albus Potter.

Over the years, he remained in contact with his old friends, as in 2017, Ginny told her and Harry's eldest son "to give Neville their love" when he arrived at Hogwarts.[4]

The Calamity
In the late 2010s and early 2020s, Neville aided members of the Statute of Secrecy Task Force who pursued a profession as a Professor by showing them a mental trick to make casting the Deterioration Hex seem as a second nature to profoundly increase its effects, while he also instructed the Magizoologists how to use the Bravery Charm to devastating effect. Neville also sent an owl to a Calamity Investigator working for the Statute of Secrecy Task Force advising them that bitter root should be dried for several days before use, making it more potent and thus reducing the brewing time for the Calamity Investigator's Exstimulo Potions.

He also later contacted the same Calamity Investigator to inform them that stroking, talking, and singing to plants encouraged their growth, with the Calamity Investigator later using this information to discover that singing the greatest hits of Celestina Warbeck to Dittany greatly increased its potency, decreasing the brewing time for their Healing Potions.[64]

During the fifth annual Vegetable Vault competition, which was held in Hogsmeade, Neville collected the winning Leaping Toadstools upon their crossing the finishing line, as these Leaping Toadstools were the most potent. He also spent time telling stories of his years at Hogwarts to the same Calamity Investigator in the Great Hall, helping them to understand the castle more deeply and making it easier for them to return Hogwarts School Traces. Later, Neville spoke with the same Calamity Investigator regarding their Greenhouse Charm and provided improvements to the incantation and stance used when casting it. He later asked the same Calamity Investigator to procure dung from an Antipodean Opaleye dragon to use as a potent fertiliser before discussing the properties of fertilisers with the Calamity Investigator.[64]

Neville also later helped the same Calamity Investigator to create a successful system for distributing excess ingredients from wizarding Greenhouses, for which Neville made sure they were rightly compensated. He also held a mandatory Herbology lecture for members of the Statute of Secrecy Task Force, including the same Calamity Investigator, where he discussed better clipping techniques and allowed the Calamity Investigator to try them out.[64]

After a Calamity surge focused on members of Dumbledore's Army and the Hog's Head Inn in November 2020, Neville reported to Harry Potter that he had suddenly developed a clear memory of a conversation he supposedly had with an unknown wizard, during which the wizard questioned his loyalties and attempted to coerce him into making an Unbreakable Vow to prove them. Harry initially believed that Neville had drank too many Butterbeers, but later started to fear that the stress of the Calamity's recent dark turn had unknowingly enabled him to implant a false memory into Neville's fifth year-era Foundable. However, after talking with Neville further, Harry came to believe that someone else had implanted the false memory, with Hermione Granger later theorising that Harry's attempt to wrest control over the surge had accidentally implanted some of the surge's originator's memories into Neville's Foundable.[64]

In December 2020, Neville overheard the Bloody Baron grumbling that Grim Fawley had "invaded his mind" by implanting another false memory and sent an owl to Harry Potter regarding the situation.[64]

Neville Longbottom
Neville in his sixth year, age 16

Physical description
Neville was said to strongly resemble his mother. He was round-faced,[16] short, chubby, and had blond hair.[65] He was also somewhat buck-toothed. Pansy Parkinson had once called him "fat", but this may have been an exaggeration, as she frequently made disparaging comments about Gryffindor students.[19] During his final year at Hogwarts, when the school was under the Death Eater regime, Neville had a swollen eye,[66] his hair was overgrown, his face was cut, and his robes were ripped.[52]

Personality and traits
Bellatrix Lestrange : "Let's see how long Longbottom lasts before he cracks like his parents... unless Potter wants to give us the prophecy."
Neville: "DON'D GIB ID DO DEM! DON'D GIB ID DO DEM, HARRY!"
— Neville defying Death Eaters with a broken nose[src]
When he was younger, Neville was clumsy, forgetful, shy, and many considered him ill-suited for Gryffindor house because he seemed timid. However, Neville proved that the Sorting Hat had seen the bravery beneath his insecurity, as he stood up to his only friends as a first-year[16] and later became one of the D.A.'s most courageous members.[39] Part of Neville's problem seems to have been poor self-esteem, as he referred to himself as a "nobody" and "almost a Squib"[26] at times. This was likely caused by his grandmother's belief that he was not living up to his parents' accomplishments, and browbeating from fellow students and people like Professor Snape. Though he came from a pure-blood family, he held no prejudice against half-bloods or Muggle-borns.

Neville appeared to suffer from a degree of post-traumatic stress disorder, as the torture of a spider via the cruciatus curse by Barty Crouch Junior in disguise as Alastor Moody was enough to cause him a severe anxiety attack. This was likely due to his own experience with his parents being subjected to the curse's worst possible outcome: the onset of permanent and complete insanity. This familiarity of what the Cruciatus Curse could do in skilled enough hands was more than enough to terrify him.

"Neville, who had emerged from nowhere brandishing armfuls of Venomous Tentacula, which looped itself happily around the nearest Death Eater and began reeling him in."
— Neville fighting against the Death Eaters[src]
Neville plant
Neville and his interest in Herbology

With the support of his friends, the encouragement of Professor Lupin to face his fears, and the motivation of knowing his parents' torturers were on the loose, Neville became braver, more self-assured, and dedicated to the fight against Lord Voldemort and his Death Eaters.[42] This was proven by his participation in many battles and his revival of the D.A. in the face of threats and torture at the hands of the Carrows in his seventh year, as well as his defiance of Voldemort himself during the final battle.[52]

Throughout the trials he faced over his seven years at Hogwarts, Neville blossomed from a timid, self-deprecating, and generally nervous student into a stalwart soldier possessed of an ironclad will, courage of outstanding merit, and a nobility of spirit, despite still having a comical and shy but at the same time courageous and fierce personality. In many ways, Neville's transformation allowed him to change from a scaredy-cat into a lordly lion, becoming a ferocious defender of his fellow students during Voldemort's reign. Suffice it to say, Neville's appointment to Gryffindor House was well-deserved.

Magical abilities and skills
Normal promo neville plant
Neville was a gifted Herbologist

"Apparently, Professor Sprout told Professor Moody I'm really good at Herbology."
— Neville's talent in Herbology[src]
Neville was not an academically strong student in his early years, often requiring Hermione's help in class and with school-work. However (as confirmed by McGonagall), part of this was likely caused by his use of another's wand, poor self-esteem, and anxiety caused by the incessant bullying from many of his peers and Snape. When he found both courage and self-confidence in his later years, Neville's magical skills as a wizard grew and he proved to be a powerful wizard in his own right.

Herbology: As confirmed by Professor Sprout, who taught Herbology at Hogwarts, Neville was particularly gifted at Herbology, with him seemingly being on par with Hermione Granger in this subject. In his first year, Neville's Herbology score was so good that it even compensated for his abysmal Potions grade, and he was the fastest worker in class: in 1996, he was the first to extract a pod from a Snargaluff plant.[67] He later scored an "Outstanding" on his O.W.L. exam,[50] helped Professor Sprout with organising the defences around Hogwarts with Devil's Snare, employed Mandrakes into the Battle of Hogwarts to attack the Death Eaters, and even worked as the Hogwarts Professor of this subject himself after the Second Wizarding War. Neville's skills in Herbology would later serve him well in his brief career as an Auror. Neville would improve his already considerable skills in the field to the extent that he was eventually hired on as the new Herbology professor at Hogwarts, succeeding his mentor, Pomona Sprout.
"He was improving so fast it was quite unnerving."
— Harry Potter regarding Neville's performance in the D.A.[src]
Neville Riddikulus
Neville mastering the Boggart-Banishing Spell

Defence Against the Dark Arts: Once properly motivated by Harry Potter during Dumbledore's Army meeting, and made more confident, Neville proved to be proficient in Defence Against the Dark Arts. Indeed, Neville even achieved an 'Exceeds Expectations' on his O.W.L. exam. This allowed him to advance to N.E.W.T.-level.[50] Neville's talent with defensive spells and Counter-curses was also proven in the Second Wizarding War (which he survived), as well as his brief post-war work as an Auror.
Duelling: Neville proved to be a surprisingly skilled and competent duellist after gaining the required confidence and motivation from his time in Dumbledore's Army: he survived both the Battle of the Department of Mysteries and the Battle of the Astronomy Tower without any serious injuries, and in the former, was notably the last person — apart from Harry Potter — standing until the Order of the Phoenix arrived to rescue them. During the Battle of Hogwarts[54] he defeated Fenrir Greyback, along with Ron and was one of the survivors.[56] It was also highly likely that, due to his hands-on experience from serving as Auror, Neville's skills in martial magic later increased considerably even further.
"I see that you have an 'Exceeds Expectations' in Charms however - why not try for a N.E.W.T. in Charms?"
— Minerva McGonagall acknowledging Neville's skill in the field of charms[src]
Charms: Neville proved to be proficient in charm-work. He earned an 'Exceeds Expectations' in the subject on his O.W.L. exam and progressed to N.EW.T.-level.[50] Apart from Hermione, he mastered the Shield Charm more quickly than anyone in Dumbledore's Army.[42] He could also effectively perform simpler charms, such as the Locking Spell,[45] and the Banishing Charm (though his aim was initially imperfect with this spell). Neville could even produce a non-corporeal Patronus Charm,[10] proving of his superior magical ability given the immense difficulty required with casting such an advanced and powerful protective charm. It was likely that he eventually managed to produce a full, corporeal Patronus, and also improved his general Charms work during his work as an Auror.
Transfiguration: Though not excellent in this subject, Professor McGonagall stated that Neville's work only lacked confidence. With that said, Neville managed to score an 'Acceptable' on his Transfiguration O.W.L. However, he was unable to continue into the N.E.W.T.-level.[50] However, it was likely that Neville's skills in the subject improved to some extent after his serving as an Auror, given how Transfiguration is commonly used in the job, and therefore he would have had more experience using it.
Leadership skills: During the 1997–1998 school year, Neville co-led Dumbledore's Army along side Ginny and Luna. His leadership proved to be so efficient, that the Death Eaters were forced to resort to attempting to control Neville through his grandmother, and he was forced to go into hiding in the Room of Requirement. Neville's leadership skills would later aid him in his career as the Herbology professor at Hogwarts in his later life.
Resourcefulness: Neville was quite resourceful during a serious situation as during the 1997–1998 school year, he was able to use the Room of Requirement as a hideout for himself when the Carrow's cornered him and later for the other members of Dumbledore's Army. He was also knowledgeable enough to use it in a way to prevent Snape and the Carrow's from entering the room which ensured that they were safe until the Battle of Hogwarts.
Teaching skills: Neville developed good teaching skills as he grew older as he took over leading Dumbledore's Army alongside Ginny and Luna while Harry, Ron and Hermione were hunting for Voldemort's Horcruxes and presumably continued Harry's teaching of defensive spells alongside standing up to the Carrow's and Snape. Later on in life, he was eventually given a teaching position in the Herbology department at Hogwarts, and eventually succeeded his mentor Pomona Sprout as the main Herbology professor, suggesting that his teaching skills had improved by then.
Indomitable willpower: Despite his early lack of self confidence and difficulties with the bullying from Draco Malfoy, Severus Snape and most of the Slytherin students, Neville was shown to have quite a strong willpower and an unbreakable spirit. This was first shown at the end of his first year, when he stood up to the trio and attempted to prevent them from sneaking out to the Underground Chambers as he didn't want to risk losing any more House points due to their disobedience. This courage grew as he gained self confidence over time. Later, during the Battle of the Department of Mysteries he stood up to Bellatrix Lestrange despite being tortured by her in response when she callously remarked that she had the pleasure of meeting and torturing both his parents, even though she was one of Voldemort's most powerful and loyal Death Eaters and was also the last person standing alongside Harry before the Order of the Phoenix arrived to rescue them. He again showed his indomitable willpower when the Death Eaters took control of Hogwarts, standing up to the Carrow's and Snape (unaware Snape was secretly still on their side) along with reforming Dumbledore's Army, despite the torturous punishments he and many of the students received for opposing the Death Eater's regime. Neville later fought against the Death Eaters in the Battle of Hogwarts and stood up to Voldemort himself upon Harry's alleged death by refusing his offer to join him and the Death Eaters even when it appeared all was lost with Harry's supposed death, showing how much he had transformed since his earlier years. His defiance of Voldemort allowed him to destroy Voldemort's last remaining Horcrux Nagini and also allowed Harry to defeat Voldemort for the final time.
Possessions
Neville's wand
Neville's second wand: 13", cherry wood, and unicorn hair core

First wand: Neville's first wand was inherited from his father, Frank Longbottom. Its length, wood, and core material were unknown, and it was destroyed by Antonin Dolohov during the Battle of the Department of Mysteries.
Second wand: Neville's second wand was 13" long, made of cherry wood, and had a unicorn hair core. This wand was manufactured by Garrick Ollivander sometime in or before 1996, and purchased from his wand shop Ollivanders in Diagon Alley.
Bedroom: Neville's bedroom was located in Augusta Longbottom's house. Augusta once joked that he had been given enough wrappers by his mother to paper his bedroom.
Trevor PM
Trevor, Neville's pet toad

Trevor: Trevor was Neville's pet toad. He was given to Neville by his Great-Uncle Algie upon Neville's gaining admission to Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.
Remembrall-neville
Neville's Remembrall

Remembrall: Neville was gifted one of these magical items by his grandmother for the 1991–1992 school year, in an attempt to help him remember things, to counter his frequent absent-mindedness. His Remembrall would turn red in colour whenever he forgot something; the only trouble being, he could often not remember what he had even forgotten.
Mimblus
Mimbulus Mimbletonia

Mimbulus mimbletonia: Neville was gifted a pot of this very rare magical plant for his birthday before the start of the 1995–1996 school year, due to his love and talent for Herbology. He was skilled in caring for this plant, and had knowledge of its species, including its Stinksap.
Magical Mediterranean Water-Plants and Their Properties: Neville was gifted a copy of this Herbology book by Professor Bartemius Crouch Junior (then disguised as Alastor Moody) in 1994, in an attempt for him to inform Harry Potter about Gillyweed for the Triwizard Tournament.
Winogrand's Wondrous Water Plants: Neville owned a copy of this Herbology book, at least since 1994, and kept it with him while hiding in the Room of Requirement in 1998 with Dumbledore's Army.
Pointed purple crystal: Neville purchased one of these supposedly protective items during the 1992–1993 school year, when the Chamber of Secrets was re-opened, to protect himself from the "monster" within that was attacking Muggle-born students. It was most likely completely useless and would have been of little utility to Neville, given that his status as a pure-blood made him a unlikely target. When this was pointed out to to him, he replied that Mrs Norris had also been a victim and believed that his (perceived) lack of ability made him little better than a squib.
Relationships
Family
Parents
Augusta Longbottom: "What's this? Haven't you told your friends about your parents, Neville? Well, it's nothing to be ashamed of! You should be proud, Neville, proud! They didn't give their health and their sanity so their only son would be ashamed of them, you know!"
Neville Longbottom: "I'm not ashamed."
Augusta Longbottom: "Well, you've got a funny way of showing it!"
— Augusta telling Neville to be proud of his parents[src]
Longbottom family portrait
Frank and Alice with baby Neville

As Neville's parents, Alice and Frank Longbottom, had been permanent residents of St Mungo's Hospital for Magical Maladies and Injuries since Neville's infancy, he never knew them as the popular and talented Aurors they were reputed to be. Nevertheless, he held them in high esteem, much like his friend Harry looked up to the parents he never knew.

Neville regularly visited his parents at St Mungo's with his grandmother, where he tried to speak to them and brought them sweets, keeping the wrappers his mother handed back to him, even when his grandmother told him to throw them in the bin.[41] Their torture clearly haunted him, as he was badly shaken by seeing the Cruciatus Curse demonstrated on a spider in his fourth year.[34]

When the Lestranges escaped from Azkaban in 1996, Neville did not discuss it, but he became very dedicated to his training in Dumbledore's Army. During the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, he was taunted about his parents by Bellatrix Lestrange, who also briefly subjected him to the Cruciatus Curse, but Neville remained defiant.[46] Neville would later carry on their legacy as a resistance fighter against Voldemort's regime at Hogwarts, and later in his brief career as an Auror.

Augusta Longbottom
Augusta Longbottom: "Have you seen my grandson?"
Harry Potter: "He's fighting."
Augusta Longbottom: "Naturally. Excuse me, I must go and assist him."
— Augusta during the Battle of Hogwarts[src]
AugustaLongbottomPS
Augusta Longbottom, his paternal grandmother

Neville was raised by his grandmother, Augusta Longbottom, after his parents were tortured to the point of insanity when he was an infant. This was pivotal in the development of his personality, as his grandmother often expressed her disappointment with her grandson's seeming lack of magical ability, and what she considered his inability to live up to his parents' skills. By Minerva McGonagall's claim, however, Augusta should be proud of the grandson she has, as opposed to the one she wants.

When Neville was a child, his grandmother, as well as some of his other relatives, feared that he might have been a Squib.[26] However, when Neville showed great bravery and heroism during the Second Wizarding War, his grandmother was clearly very proud of him. She came to Hogwarts during the final battle and ran off to assist him in fighting Death Eaters.[54]

Uncle Algie
"My Great Uncle Algie kept trying to catch me off my guard and force some magic out of me — he pushed me off the end of Blackpool pier once, I nearly drowned —"
— Neville talking about Uncle Algie to his fellow Gryffindors[src]
Neville appeared to be fairly close to his great-uncle Algie, who tried to "scare" magic into him when he was younger; he once accidentally dropped Neville out of a window while reaching for a meringue, and when Neville bounced, his family was pleased to discover that he was not, in fact, a Squib. Algie later rewarded him with his pet toad Trevor for getting into Hogwarts. Algie and Neville appear to have shared an interest in Herbology, as Algie gave Neville his very rare Mimbulus mimbletonia plant, which at one point was the password to the Gryffindor common room. However, as Algie was willing to risk Neville's life to reveal his magic, such as pushing him into a lake and dangling him from a window, Algie more than likely cared more for Neville's magic than for the boy himself.

Hannah Abbott
Hannah Abbott GOF
Hannah Abbott, his future wife

Neville and Hannah Abbott were never shown as being more than classmates during school, but sometime after leaving Hogwarts, Neville and Hannah married and moved into the Leaky Cauldron, where she worked as the landlady and Neville as the Hogwarts Herbology teacher.[68]

Hannah eventually retrained as a Healer and applied to become the new matron of Hogwarts,[68] a job held by Poppy Pomfrey during their years as students. However, in the year 2020, Madam Pomfrey was still the matron, as she reset Albus Potter's broken arm.[69]

Trevor
Neville Longbottom: "Sorry, but have you seen a toad at all? I've lost him! He keeps getting away from me!"
Harry Potter: "He'll turn up."
Neville Longbottom: "Yes. Well, if you see him ..."
— Neville asking Harry Potter and Ron Weasley if they had seen Trevor on the Hogwarts Express[src]
Trevor
Trevor, his pet toad

Trevor was Neville's pet toad. He was given to Neville by his Uncle Algie upon Neville's gaining admission to Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Neville often lost Trevor, as he did the first time he rode the Hogwarts Express and Hermione Granger met Harry Potter and Ron Weasley as she helped him search. In Neville's third year, Professor Snape made him test his Shrinking Solution on the toad; though Neville's dubious potion-making skills could have resulted in the toad's death, Trevor was successfully transformed into a tadpole, much to the Gryffindors' delight.

At some point, Trevor escaped into the Hogwarts Lake. Both pet and owner felt a sense of relief.[70]

Friends
Harry Potter
"Neville speaks most highly of you."
— Augusta Longbottom regarding Neville's high regard of Harry[src]
Harry Potter OOTPF
Harry Potter, his good friend and room-mate

Neville first met Harry Potter in 1991, while Neville was looking for his toad, Trevor, on the Hogwarts Express. They became classmates and room-mates after they were both Sorted into the Gryffindor house, and came to be good friends over the years. In 1994, Harry learned that Neville's parents were tortured into insanity by Barty Crouch Jnr, Bellatrix, Rodolphus, and Rabastan Lestrange. Harry felt that Neville was far more deserving of pity than he, though he promised Dumbledore not to tell anyone what he knew, as it was Neville's decision whether or not to reveal his past to his friends.

In their fifth year, Neville became a member of Dumbledore's Army, an organisation led by Harry to oppose Dolores Umbridge and learn practical defensive magic. After the Lestranges escaped from Azkaban that same year, Neville resolved to become stronger and try to honour his parents' reputations as excellent Aurors. True to his word, Neville fought alongside Harry at the Battle of the Department of Mysteries and saved Harry's life from Walden Macnair when Macnair attempted to strangle Harry. When Harry was crying over the death of Sirius Black, Neville did not question nor protest Harry's friendship with an alleged criminal and mass murder, instead consoling him for his godfather's demise.

In 1996, Harry refused to allow Romilda Vane to insult Neville and Luna Lovegood, stating that they were his real friends, and the only ones who had fought alongside Ron, Ginny, Hermione, and himself at the Department of Mysteries. At the end of the year, Neville and Harry both fought in the Battle of the Astronomy Tower and attended Dumbledore's funeral.

Harry Potter: "You're worth twelve of Malfoy. The Sorting Hat chose you for Gryffindor, didn't it? And where's Malfoy? In stinking Slytherin."
Neville Longbottom: "Thanks, Harry ... I think I'll go to bed.... D'you want the card, you collect them, don't you?"
— Harry consoling Neville in their first year[src]
The next year, while Harry, Ron and Hermione left Hogwarts to search for Voldemort's Horcruxes, Neville, along with Ginny Weasley and Luna Lovegood, led Dumbledore's Army in maintaining a steady level of opposition against Alecto and Amycus Carrow, two Death Eaters who had been appointed deputy Headmaster and Headmistress of Hogwarts under Severus Snape. Neville would later state that the hope Harry inspired in standing up to his enemies drove Neville to do the same. Neville and Harry fought together in the Battle of Hogwarts, where Harry realised that Neville was one of his closest friends and one of the few people he would like to see once again before he dies in the forest and Neville showed his bravery and loyalty to Harry when he openly defied Voldemort and beheaded Nagini, destroying Voldemort's last remaining Horcrux.

Neville and Harry remained in contact after the end of the Second Wizarding War and Harry made Neville the godfather of his son Albus Severus, showing their good friendship. Harry's children were later taught by Neville, who had been appointed Herbology professor at Hogwarts.

Hermione Granger
Phineas Nigellus Black: "Exactly what claim did the Weasley girl have upon it? She deserved her punishment, as did the idiot Longbottom and the Lovegood oddity!"
Hermione Granger: "Neville is not an idiot and Luna is not an oddity!"
— Hermione Granger defending Neville and Luna to the portrait of Phineas Nigellus Black[src]
Hermione Granger OOTP profile
Hermione Granger, his friend

Neville met Hermione Granger on the Hogwarts Express when she helped him find Trevor, his toad. During their years at Hogwarts, they became closer as Hermione encouraged him to stand up for himself when Draco Malfoy and his friends played pranks on him, or made jokes at his expense.

Because of his lack of confidence in classes, Neville frequently made mistakes, and Hermione usually came to his assistance, often whispering instructions in his ear. She also took note of how shaken Neville was by their fourth year lesson on the Unforgivable Curses, shouting for Professor Moody to stop demonstrating the Cruciatus Curse and later asking Neville if it was all right. Because Hermione had "always been so nice", Neville plucked up the courage to ask her to the Yule Ball in 1994, though she had already accepted the offer of Viktor Krum.[36]

Neville and Hermione became members of Dumbledore's Army in 1995, during their fifth year at Hogwarts, and fought together at the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, as well as in the Battle of the Astronomy Tower in 1997. When the trio returned to Hogwarts in 1998 just before the Battle of Hogwarts, it was Neville who greeted them enthusiastically, and who first expressed a willingness to help them in any way possible and to fight the incoming Death Eater army.

After the Second Wizarding War, the two best friends remained in contact throughout the years.

Ron Weasley
"Blimey, Neville, there's a time and a place for getting a smart mouth!"
— Ron to Neville after Neville explains how he received injuries at the hands of the Carrows[src]
Ronald Weasley OOTP
Ron Weasley, his friend and room-mate

Neville met Ron Weasley on the Hogwarts Express at the start of their first year. As both were Sorted into Gryffindor house, they became room-mates. Over time, Neville became good friends with Ron, who, like Hermione and Harry, encouraged Neville not to let the Slytherins get to him.

Ron, Hermione, and Ginny all learned about Neville's parents during their fifth year at Hogwarts, and were shocked to learn that the good-natured, clumsy boy was carrying such a dark secret. Ron and Neville both became members of Dumbledore's Army in 1995, in order to oppose Professor Umbridge and learn to fight the Death Eaters. They fought alongside one another at the Battle of the Department of Mysteries and the Battle of the Astronomy Tower. Neville greeted Ron, Harry, and Hermione enthusiastically when they returned to Hogwarts in 1998, and they all fought against Voldemort's forces in the Battle of Hogwarts. During the battle, Neville and Ron defeated Fenrir Greyback together, protecting each other. After the battle they remained as best friends and they regularly see each other.

Ginny Weasley
Ginny Weasley OOTP promo
Ginny Weasley, a good friend and his Yule Ball date

After asking Hermione to the Yule Ball in his fourth year and being turned down because she had already agreed to attend with Viktor Krum, Neville asked Ginny Weasley. She agreed to go with him as a friend, being too young to attend otherwise.[36]

The two continued to be friendly afterwards, and Ginny, like Harry, Hermione and Ron, encouraged Neville to be more confident. She and Luna Lovegood were co-leaders of the re-formed Dumbledore's Army along with Neville when Snape and the Carrows controlled Hogwarts.[52] Ginny and Neville also fought at the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, the Battle of the Astronomy Tower, and the Battle of Hogwarts (where they blew up together the covered bridge).

After the war, Ginny and Neville remained in contact, and they remained closest friends, with Ginny naming Neville godfather to her son Albus Severus and being on friendly terms with her other son, James Sirius.

Luna Lovegood
Luna Lovegood: "And I don't know who you are."
Neville: "I'm nobody."
Ginny Weasley: "No, you're not. Neville Longbottom — Luna Lovegood..."
— Ginny Weasley introduces Neville and Luna[src]
Luna HPHBP
Luna Lovegood, a good friend

Neville and Luna, a Ravenclaw student, first met on the Hogwarts Express, in 1995. Neville found Luna a bit "odd", as she believed in the existence of strange, mythical creatures, had a tendency to read magazines upside down, and wore earrings that appeared to be made of radishes. Luna, like Harry and Neville, had the ability to see Thestrals, as they had all seen someone die.

Spacey as Luna seemed, she fought alongside Neville at the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, the Battle of the Astronomy Tower, and the Battle of Hogwarts. At some point they became very close friends. During Neville's last year at Hogwarts, he, Luna and Ginny, re-formed and co-led Dumbledore's Army in order to oppose the Carrows. Neville seems to have a place in his heart for Luna. They also remained close friends in later life. It seemed that Luna was always glad when Neville, Ginny, Hermione, Ron, and Harry were close by, proved when the trio visited Luna's father Xenophilius Lovegood and seeing Luna's room with their painting on her bedroom ceiling connected with gold letters spelling "friends".

Draco Malfoy
"Longbottom, if brains were gold you'd be poorer than Weasley, and that's saying something."
— Draco Malfoy's opinion of Neville[src]
Draco Malfoy Promo HPB
Draco Malfoy, his school bully

Initially shy and clumsy, Neville regularly found himself on the receiving end of insults from Draco and his gang, and was often the butt of their jokes and pranks — a fact which served only to make Neville clumsier and less confident. When encouraged by Hermione, Ron, and Harry to stand up for himself, Neville replied with "how? I can barely stand at all" but, despite this previous mind set Neville grew to be someone who was much more difficult to bully by his later years at Hogwarts.

He started resisting against not only the Slytherin students, but also Alecto and Amycus Carrow and Severus Snape. During the Battle of Hogwarts, Neville proved to have made an impressive and complete turn around from his earlier years of crumbling under Draco's bullying, when he openly defied Lord Voldemort and beheaded Nagini, effectively destroying Voldemort's final Horcrux.

Dumbledore's Army
"I liked the D.A.! I learned loads with you!"
— Neville to Harry Potter on D.A. meetings[src]
Dumbledore's Army
Dumbledore's Army, his friends and allies

Dumbledore's Army was an organisation led by Harry Potter that sought not only to undermine the dictatorial authority of Dolores Umbridge, but to offer students a means of learning the practical defensive magic Umbridge denied them in their actual Defence Against the Dark Arts class. Neville became a member at the time of its formation in 1995, and this marked something of a turning point both in terms of Neville's relationships with other Hogwarts students, and in terms of his magical ability beyond Herbology. As the D.A.'s practice progressed throughout the course of the year, Neville showed marked improvement in his ability to disarm and stun, as well as perform the Impediment Jinx and Reductor Curse, among others.

When several Death Eaters escaped from Azkaban in early 1996, all of the D.A. pushed themselves to improve their duelling abilities, but none more than Neville, as three of the escapees had taken part in torturing his parents into insanity.

While training with the D.A. equipped Neville to face the Death Eaters in the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, the sense of camaraderie Neville enjoyed with them made him one of only three members (along with Ginny Weasley and Luna Lovegood) to answer Ron and Hermione's call leading up to the Battle of the Astronomy Tower.

Neville, Ginny and Luna co-led the DA in 1997, when it was re-formed to oppose the reign of Severus Snape, Alecto Carrow, and Amycus Carrow at Hogwarts. Most of the former members reunited and spent ample time hiding in the Room of Requirement, awaiting the return of Harry, Ron, and Hermione. They were quick to mobilise against the invading Death Eaters, with Neville at their lead, while Harry, Ron, and Hermione were searching for Rowena Ravenclaw's Diadem. While Fred Weasley, Lavender Brown and Colin Creevey were tragically killed, Neville fought valiantly and eventually beheaded Nagini on Harry's orders, destroyed Voldemort's final remaining Horcrux.

Professors
Severus Snape
"Tell me, boy, does anything penetrate that thick skull of yours? Didn't you hear me say, quite clearly, that only one rat spleen was needed? Didn't I state plainly that a dash of leech juice would suffice? What do I have to do to make you understand, Longbottom?"
— Snape tormenting Neville[src]
Severus Snape Profile
Severus Snape, his professor and Boggart

During his years at school, Neville was terrified of Professor Severus Snape, and the poor boy managed to earn the Potions Master's ire in almost every lesson. Snape regularly and unnecessarily targeted Neville with verbal taunts, threats, sarcasm, and malice, which put an extremely nervous Neville even more on edge. Snape went so far as to feed a few drops of Neville's Shrinking Solution to Neville's pet, Trevor, so as to humiliate him for doing badly on the potion and almost kill Neville's toad. Thanks to Hermione, Neville was able to fix his potion so that his toad wasn't harmed.

Neville admitted in 1993 that Snape scared him more than anything else in the world, and was the form his boggart took. When Professor Lupin asked the Defence Against the Dark Arts class what frightened them the most, Neville at first mumbled inaudibly; when Professor Lupin asked Neville to say it clearly, Neville (after wildly looking around) whispered "Professor Snape." Nearly everyone laughed at that, and then Professor Lupin replied thoughtfully, "Professor Snape."[8]

When he sat his Potions O.W.L. in 1996, Harry noted that Neville looked happier than usual without Snape around. Neville also co-led the second Dumbledore's Army and wrote slogans on the walls, in order to oppose Snape and the Carrows. Snape was killed by Nagini during the Battle of Hogwarts. Though Neville was present when Harry informed Voldemort of Snape's true allegiance, it is unknown how Neville reacted. It is possible Snape hated Neville so much because if Voldemort had chosen to go after him rather than Harry, Lily would still be alive.

Albus Dumbledore
"There are all kinds of courage. It takes a great deal of bravery to stand up to our enemies, but just as much to stand up to our friends. I therefore award ten points to Mr Neville Longbottom."
— Albus Dumbledore rewarding Neville's bravery[src]
Albus Dumbledore POA promo
Albus Dumbledore, his headmaster

Neville thought Albus Dumbledore was the greatest wizard of all time. He met Dumbledore in 1991, when he was the headmaster of Hogwarts. At the end of Neville's first year, Dumbledore awarded Gryffindor the ten points they needed to win the House cup because Neville had the courage to try and stop Harry, Hermione, and Ron from leaving the Gryffindor tower after hours. Dumbledore also knew about Neville's parents, and told Harry not to say anything, leaving Neville the right to choose when he revealed his past to his friends.

Dumbledore and Neville also fought together at the Battle of the Department of Mysteries, and the Battle of the Astronomy Tower, where Dumbledore was killed by Severus Snape. Neville was devastated by his death.

Other staff
"It's high time your grandmother learned to be proud of the grandson she's got, rather than the one she thinks she ought to have - particularly after what happened at the Ministry."
— Minerva praising Neville's abilities[src]
Minerva McGonagall POAF promo
Professor McGonagall, his Head of House and professor

Minerva McGonagall was Neville's Head of House and Transfiguration professor during his years at Hogwarts. She often scolded Neville for his clumsiness and incompetence, though it was more likely his lack of confidence that frustrated her. McGonagall knew that Neville was capable of more than he seemed and saw that he was actually brave, and thus encouraged him to work to his potential. She was also a friend of Neville's grandmother, and had known his parents in their days as Aurors. Neville and McGonagall both fought in the Battle of the Astronomy Tower and the Battle of Hogwarts, and both survived the war. Years after the war, Neville was given the position of Herbology professor at Hogwarts, although it is unknown if McGonagall was still teaching there.

PSprout
Professor Sprout, his Herbology professor

Professor Sprout was Neville's Herbology professor, and as Neville proved to be quite adept at Herbology, possibly the best in the year, she was undoubtedly the Professor he got along with best. At one point, Sprout even spoke of Neville's strength in the subject to Barty Crouch Jnr, while he was disguised as Professor Moody. Neville helped Sprout use Devil's Snare, Mandrakes, Venomous Tentacula, and Snargaluff pods to attack the Death Eaters during the Battle of Hogwarts, and they both survived the war. It is likely that Sprout had retired by the time Neville was appointed the new Herbology Professor, though they may have taught the class together.

Neville despised professor Dolores Umbridge, the Ministry-appointed Defence Against the Dark Arts professor for the 1995–1996 school year. Like nearly everyone else at Hogwarts, with the possible exception of some of the Slytherin students and Argus Filch, Neville hated Umbridge for her sadistic punishments and attempts to control the school. He became a member of Dumbledore's Army partially in order to oppose her. Umbridge left the school in 1996 after paying the price for verbally assaulting a herd of centaurs and attempting to flee; she was discovered by Peeves, who led the students in chasing her away from the school.

Death Eaters Alecto and Amycus Carrow were appointed professors at Hogwarts in 1997, after Dumbledore's death. Amycus taught Defence Against the Dark Arts, which he changed to the Dark Arts, and Alecto taught Muggle Studies with an obvious anti-Muggle slant. Amycus and Alecto liked to punish the students with the use of torture, and ordered students to practise the Cruciatus Curse on other students who had been detained. Neville helped re-form Dumbledore's Army, along with Ginny and Luna, and maintained a steady opposition against the Carrows throughout the course of the year. In an attempt to control Neville, Ministry Auror John Dawlish was sent to take Neville's grandmother hostage; unfortunately for Dawlish, the tenacious Augusta Longbottom fought back, apparently putting Dawlish in St Mungo's and going on the run. As the Carrows no longer had hope of finding any real leverage to use against Neville, and had no reason not to simply kill him, Neville went into hiding in the Room of Requirement, where he was soon joined by a number of other Gryffindor, Hufflepuff and Ravenclaw students who saw fit to do the same.

Death Eaters
Bellatrix Lestrange
Bellatrix: "Longbottom? Why, I have had the pleasure of meeting your parents, boy...."
Neville: "I DOE YOU HAB!"
— Bellatrix taunting Neville during the Battle of the Department of Mysteries[src]
Bellatrix-promo-bellatrix-lestrange-28967562-470-627
Bellatrix Lestrange, a Death Eater who took part in the torture of his parents, causing them to go insane.

Bellatrix Lestrange led fellow Death Eaters; Rodolphus Lestrange, Rabastan Lestrange, and Barty Crouch Jnr in the torture Neville's parents by means of the Cruciatus Curse, leaving them permanently incapacitated in St Mungo's. When Bellatrix escaped from Azkaban prison in January 1996, Neville was heavily affected.

His performance in Dumbledore's Army increased to the point where he managed to master the Shield Charm before everyone but Hermione. When he went to the Ministry of Magic later that year, Bellatrix taunted him about his parents, but Neville fought back, much to Bellatrix's surprise. Neville also saw Bellatrix murder Sirius Black, and expressed his condolences to Harry. Neville met Bellatrix again in 1998, during the Battle of Hogwarts, where she was eventually killed in a duel by Molly Weasley.

Bartemius Crouch Junior
"It's all right, sonny. Why don't you come up to my office? Come on... we can have a cup of tea...."
— Barty Crouch (as Alastor Moody) pretending to comfort Neville after showing him the Cruciatus Curse[src]
Barty Crouch Jnr cropped
Bartemius Crouch Jnr, who helped torture his parents into insanity

Barty Crouch Junior was also involved in the torture of Neville's parents by means of the Cruciatus Curse.[14] During Neville's fourth year, Barty impersonated Alastor Moody and served as Neville's Defence Against the Dark Arts Professor.[71]

During his first lesson with the fourth years, Barty (as Moody) took notice of Neville's name on the class register. He then demonstrated the three Unforgivable Curses on spiders, including the Cruciatus Curse, which left Neville deeply shaken.[72] "Moody" afterwards had tea with Neville and gave him a book about Herbology, seemingly out of comfort and support,[72] although it was later revealed that he had only done so to give Harry a clue about the Triwizard Tournament's second task.[71] It is unknown how Neville reacted upon learning the truth about his D.A.D.A. teacher. Barty Crouch was given the Dementor's Kiss in 1995 after having been exposed, losing his soul.[73]

Lord Voldemort
Lord Voldemort: "You show spirit and bravery, and you come of noble stock. You will make a very valuable Death Eater. We need your kind, Neville Longbottom."
Neville: "I'll join you when hell freezes over! Dumbledore's Army!"
— Voldemort and Neville at the Battle of Hogwarts[src]
Tom Riddle DHF2
Lord Voldemort, an enemy

Either Neville or Harry were the boy possibly referred to in the prophecy as being destined to bring about Voldemort's end. However, Voldemort chose to target the Potters based on the simple concept that Harry was a half-blood like himself, thus marking Harry, and not Neville, as his equal. After Lord Voldemort's first defeat, four fanatically loyal Death Eaters tortured Neville's parents, Frank and Alice Longbottom, to the point of insanity, using the Cruciatus Curse, in an attempt to force Voldemort's whereabouts out of them; this fact initially haunted Neville, but eventually spurred him to rise to his full potential.

After honing his skills and steadily acquiring self-confidence through training with Dumbledore's Army, Neville fought against Voldemort's Death Eaters countless times during the Second Wizarding War. Near the end of the Battle of Hogwarts, Neville actually attempted to charge directly at Voldemort, presumably aiming to slay Nagini, as Harry had told him she had to die at all costs. Voldemort offered Neville the chance to join him, commending his "spirit and bravery"; Neville declined, and instead, drew the Sword of Gryffindor from the Sorting Hat and succeeded in beheading Nagini. As Nagini had been Voldemort's last remaining Horcrux, Neville's incredible display of bravery allowed Harry to defeat Voldemort once and for all.

In addition to this, Neville also indirectly fulfilled his role in the prophecy by destroying Voldemort's last remaining Horcrux as it was this act which rendered Voldemort mortal and allowed Harry to finally defeat Voldemort. Although Voldemort chose to mark Harry as his target based on the prophecy, Neville proved by standing up to him and destroying his final Horcrux that he was capable of being the other boy to meet the prophecy's requirements. It is unknown whether Voldemort recognised Neville as the other boy which the prophecy referred to and it is also unknown if Neville ever learnt this himself after Voldemort's final defeat.

