A spell was a controlled manifestation of magic that affected the world in a supernatural fashion.[1] There were spells for conjuring objects out of thin air and vanishing objects into thin air,[2] spells for transforming something into something else, spells for making object levitate or carry out certain actions,[3] as well as combative spells, like stunning and shielding.[4] The action of performing a spell is referred to as casting or spellwork.[5][6]

Generally cast by a witch or a wizard, spells were often produced with certain wand movements and a verbal incantation, or for more experienced witches and wizards, silently and/or wandlessly.

Some spells could appear as jets of light, such as the Killing Curse. Because of this, spells could often miss, be dodged, or blocked, either with an object or another spell.


Contents
1	Usage
1.1	Limitations
1.2	Dangers
2	Appearance
3	Durations
4	Origin
5	Classification
6	Texts on spells
7	Behind the scenes
8	See also
9	Appearances
10	Notes and references
Usage
"Now, don't forget that nice wrist movement we've been practising! The swish and flick! And saying the magic words properly is very important, too — never forget Wizard Baruffio, who said 's' instead of 'f' and found himself on the floor with a buffalo on his chest."
— Professor Flitwick in Charms class[src]
Alohomora wand movement WU
Alohomora wand movement

Normally, spells required four main factors to be properly accounted for in order to succeed: wand movement, incantation, concentration and intention. Although casting some spells were a matter of caster's will, while for others, it was a question of intent,[7] it was invariably the case that if one did not move their wand in the correct way, did not speak the incantation properly and/or could not retain their concentration and/or desired outcome in their imagination during casting, then the spell would fail or backfire.[3]

In addition, the quality and duration of spells depended entirely on the amount of spell energy they were capable of generating for it, as well as their level of success at transferring and distributing it, which could be improved with practice[8] or decline with neglect.[9] It should also be noted that spells could be performed with or without speech and wands, though non-verbal and wandless spells were much more difficult and hence were usually not taught to practitioners until they reached a more advanced level, such as the sixth year of study at Hogwarts.[10]

Most incantations derived from the Latin language (such as Accio)[11] but there were also some English incantations (such as Obliviate[12] or Stupefy).[4] It could be that, in other countries and wizarding territories, spells with an English incantation or another incantation other than Latin-based, could be used in other languages, as long as wizards used the same wand movement, concentration and intention.

Limitations
"Stance, wand movement, grip, and incantation, are all essential to casting a spell."
— Professor Flitwick[src]
Spells were as numerous as stars in the sky and their different effects were just as countless. However, some things were simply impossible, even for the most powerful of magic:

There was no way to bring the dead back to life. Necromancy had always been considered a failed branch of magic. The best one could do was reanimate a corpse, creating things like Inferi or Charmed skeletons.
There was no spell for protecting dead flesh from fire.[13]
It was impossible for genuine love to be recreated artificially, Entrancing Enchantments only dulled the senses and created feelings of infatuation.[14]
The act of duplicating material objects was a simple matter, but it was impossible to duplicate a soul.[15]
According to the first of the five Principal Exceptions of Gamp's Law of Elemental Transfiguration, food could not be conjured out of thin air. Preexisting food could be enlarged, multiplied, and summoned or teleported from another location, but not made out of nothing.[16]
Additionally, while some spells, like the Levitation Charm and the match to needle spell were simple and could easily be mastered by children, other spells, like the Patronus Charm and Human Transfiguration were extraordinarily difficult and even adult wizards struggled to learn them.

The Killing and Cruciatus Curses, two of the Unforgivable Curses, were also extremely hard to perform successfully by non-Dark wizard or witches, as both required ill-intent and genuine desire to kill or harm the victim.[17]

Dangers
When two spells clashed against each other, they could rebound against each other and go off course, hitting something other than the intended target.[18]

When two different spells hit something simultaneously, they could combine into an entirely new effect. For example, if someone were hit by the Pimple Jinx and the Jelly-Legs Curse, it would cause the victims face to be covered in a multitude of small wiggling tentacles.[19]

Some spells, like the Hour-Reversal Charm, were unstable and dangerous. Although, there were ways to compensate; rather than casting the spell directly, the Hour-Reversal Charm could have been used to enchant an object through which its effects could have been more safely activated.[20]

Appearance
Main article: Bangs-and-smells magic
Stupefy
The Stunning Spell created red light when cast

When performed, spells usually manifested as light, sparks, lightning, or fiery energy of various colours from the tip of the wand they were cast with, such as the tell-tale red of Stupefy[21] or green of Avada Kedavra.[22] However, some spells, such as Accio and Silencio, produced no visible intermediate effect.

Some spells also made loud noises when cast, although Harry Potter noted that "bangs and smoke were more often the marks of ineptitude than experience."[23]

Durations
Typically, spells, once cast, had a time limit placed upon them. This means that effects and after-effects magically induced by them were not meant to last. Some spells, like Expelliarmus, only operated briefly and swiftly, as they carried out their intended purpose instantaneously and didn’t need to continue to function.[24] While spells like Stupefy[5] and Petrificus Totalus would wear off on their own eventually.[25]

GoldenSnitch PM
A Golden Snitch, an object with an enchantment that lasted long after the caster's death

Counter-spells could have also been used to end a long lasting spell's effect prematurely. Likewise, a spell whose effect had yet to diminish would disappear at the moment of the caster's death. However, it was mentioned that ancient Egyptian wizards could place curses on their tombs for anyone who might open them, and that these curses remained long after the casters were presumed dead. It could be that the Egyptian wizards used curses that could grow stronger over time or at least retain their power after the casters' deaths, as that was one known aspect of certain Dark magic.[26]

Even if a spell wore off or was undone, it might have had permanent after-effects. Memory Charms could be so strong that they could completely remove a person's memory or even damage their mind permanently.[12][27] If the Imperius Curse was cast poorly on a victim, or if the Cruciatus Curse was used on a victim for a prolonged period of time, it could also damage the victim's mind permanently. The Killing Curse would instantly kill its victim, and that would be irreversible and permanent, unless one was protected by sacrificial protection or had previously created at least one Horcrux the moment they were hit with the curse.

Origin
Naturally, every spell had to have been invented by someone. Severus Snape for example was often attributed with the creation of spells such as Levicorpus and Sectumsempra during his time as a student at Hogwarts.[28][29]

New spells could be crafted by wizards and witches, though spell creation was a highly difficult and dangerous practice, as exemplified by Pandora Lovegood, who was killed in a backfired attempt at spell-crafting.[30]

In some cases, a newly created spell might have had a similar, but more favourable result to a pre-existing spell, which could result in the pre-existing spell becoming obsolete. The spell Open Sesame was once used to bypass locked doors, but it resulted in the whole door being destroyed. It was later made obsolete by the spell Portaberto, which destroyed only the lock, still destructive, but more subtle. This spell later became obsolete itself with the discovery of Alohomora, which simply unlocked the lock without any damage to the door.

In some cases, there was dispute over who had invented a certain spell; Miranda Goshawk believed the Disarming Charm was most likely invented by Elizabeth Smudgling, who used it to win a duelling contest in Dartmoor.[31] However, some historians believed Merlin was the one who invented it. Others claimed that its first widespread use was in Madagascar in the 11th century.

Classification
"There was a lot more to magic, as Harry quickly found out, than waving your wand and saying a few funny words."
— Harry Potter learning that magic is not as easy as he thought[src]
Below is a list of all known categories that spells could be assigned to.

It should be noted that when it came to the classification of spell types, "the boundaries are flexible," and as such, types of spells may overlap, or have non-indicative effects.[40] It also seems likely that certain spell types belonged to separate classification schemes to others.

For example: Petrification was dark magic of the most advanced kind,[41] but it was also Transfiguration; Melofors was both a Jinx and a Conjuration,[33][42] Fiendfyre could be considered as conjuration as well as a curse[43] and many healing spells could also be considered either charms or counter-spells. Hence, it appears that charm vs transfiguration is one method of classification and differentiation, and that charm/counter-spell/healing spell vs jinx/hex/curse is a different one.

Due to this overlap, it was easy to get Transfiguration and Charms mixed up. A good rule of thumb for telling the difference was that a charm added to or changed the properties of an object, while transfiguration changed the object itself. Transfigurations was concerned with what the object is (its form), while a charm was concerned with what the object is doing (its function).[44]

