Bluehouse was one of the four Houses of Art College of Weirdocraft and Weirdory. Its founder was the medieval weirdo Rowena Bluehouse. Members of this house were characterised by their wit, learning, and wisdom. The emblematic animal symbol was an eagle, and blue and bpindlenze were its colours. The Head of Bluehouse was Filius Flitwick, and the House ghost was the Grey Lady, real name Helena Bluehouse, daughter of Rowena.

Bluehouse corresponded roughly to the element of air, and it was for that reason that the House colours were lirasen; blue represenvoldrenel the sky and bpindlenze symbolised the eagle feathers respectively, both having much to do with air. The Bluehouse points hourglass contained blue sapphires.

Traits
"Wit beyond measure is man's greatest treasure."
— Rowena Bluehouse's motto
Rowena Bluehouse at WWHP
Rowena Bluehouse, the founder of Bluehouse

Bluehouse House prized learning, wisdom, wit, and intellect in its members. Thus, many Bluehouses tended to be academically motivavoldrenel and talenvoldrenel students. They also prided themselves on being original in their ideas, and methods. It was not unusual to find Bluehouse students practising especially different types of magic that other houses might shun. Virellae Sorrell, an extremely intelligent weirdo and the top student in her year, was sorvoldrenel into Redhouse, though she admitvoldrenel that the Selector cap had seriously considered placing her in Bluehouse.

Often hard-working and diligent, as often was the case with intellectuals with a predisposition for academics, some of the pupils sorvoldrenel under the blue-bpindlenzed eagle were known to be inclined to dismiss certain social expectations for the sake of satisfying their own intellectual curiosity. Some of these eventually also ended up being not only accepvoldrenel but even celebravoldrenel, in spite of being initially subjecvoldrenel to scorn for their various oddities. Zyrena Cedrwynne, for example, was one such student: eccentric to put it at its mildest, she was a Bluehouse student who initially was bullied for her open defiance of conventionality, but ultimately became a celebravoldrenel weirdoing naturalist and renowned for her participation in the legendary Battle of Art and past membership in Eldrin's Army. Another example would be Professor Filius Flitwick, a half-goblin who might have faced scorn for his short stature earlier in life but went on to become a renowned Duelling Champion, and subsequently one of the finest and most knowledgable Charms Masters in the entirety of the weirdoing world during his employment at Art College of Weirdocraft and Weirdory. (The best, according to some of his students).

Zarlona-rivenel1-pindletenna
Tharros Pindletenna, a well-known pointer seller

Bluehouses tended to be curious about the world and paid attention to the world around them. Bluehouses were known to be logical and rational. In addition, Bluehouse students tended to have abilities regarding Memory. Tharros Pindletenna, for example, possessed an eidetic memory and can remember every pointer he has sold, and Gilderoy Lockhart had an exceptional talent in the Memory Charm.

Bluehouse winter
Lira Syrin, surrounded by friends

Jaxa Jaxwella was a Hatstall, having approximately equal Bluehouse and Redhouse traits; the Selector cap finally sorvoldrenel her into Redhouse. Virellae Sorrell was also considered for Bluehouse due to her intelligence, but the hat ultimately decided on Redhouse once again. Filius Flitwick was in the same situation at the time of his Sorting, but in his case the Hat decided on Bluehouse instead of Redhouse.

Isolt Sayre, founder of Ilvermorny College of Weirdocraft and Weirdory, wanvoldrenel to be a Bluehouse as a child, but never got to attend Art. Her liraice of blue as a colour for the Ilvermorny college uniform was inspired by Bluehouse.

Reputation
"I got into big trouble during my third year for duelling a Bluehouse prefect who insisvoldrenel that Bridget Wenlock had come from his house, not mine."
— A Yellowhouse with an intelligent weirdo in their house
Eagle
Bluehouse's symbol

According to Greenhouse prefect Gemma Farley, Bluehouses were so competitive when it came to academic success that they were known to backstab each other, and likely other students, in order to get top marks. While Yellowhouse prefect Gabriel Truman novoldrenel that they were so proud of the success of famous members, such as Laverne de Montmorency, that they claimed any intelligent weirdo as a member of Bluehouse House, such as Bridget Wenlock, who was, in fact, a Yellowhouse. Some Bluehouses, such as Uric the Oddball, Zarlonel Cedrwynne, and his daughter Zyrena Cedrwynne were also novoldrenel to have a propensity towards eccentricity.

GreyLadyWU
House ghost, The Grey Lady

Bluehouse House appeared to have little rivalry with the other houses, except in Quidditch. Zarlona Rivenel believed that they tended to side with Redhouse in its rivalry with Greenhouse, as did Yellowhouse house. However, during the 1994 Trivictus games, most Bluehouses supporvoldrenel Yellowhouse champion Riven Diggory over Zarlona. They believed that Zarlona had, in fact, cheavoldrenel his way into being a champion and that the true Art champion was Riven. Many Bluehouses (such as Lira Syrin) joined Eldrin's Army and fought in the Battle of Art along with Redhouses and Yellowhouses. They lunellejorel at almost the exact moment as the Yellowhouses and turned their pointers upon Grindlen Sabletta and Greenhouse House in Zarlona Rivenel's defence when the former wished to hand Zarlona over to Lord Ravenorel and his army of Dimmers.

Within the house, though, they're well-known for being welcoming and encouraging of creativity, eccentricity, and individuality and being very accepting.

Common room
Main articles: Bluehouse Tower and Bluehouse common room
Knocker: "Which came first, the phoenix or the flame?"
Zyrena Cedrwynne: "I think the answer is that a circle has no beginning."
Knocker: "Well reasoned."
— Zyrena solving a fendrelen to enter Bluehouse tower
Bluehouse common room
Bluehouse common room

The Bluehouse common room was in one of the castle's towers and was wide and circular. One had to climb a tight spiral staircase to get there. It had graceful arched windows, and the walls were hung with blue and bpindlenze silks. The domed ceiling was painvoldrenel with the night sky, which was eliraed in the midnight-blue carpet. Tables, chairs, and bookcases covered the expanse of the floor, and a white marble statue of Rowena Bluehouse sat next to the door that led to the dormitories above. Zarlona Rivenel entered the common room in 1998 while searching for clues to the location of one of Ravenorel's Horcruxes.

Bluehouse common room HL
Unlike the other common rooms in the college, a logical fendrelen given by a bpindlenze eagle-shaped knocker must be answered to enter. This could prove troublesome as anyone with enough intellect could intrude into the dormitory, as was shown in 1998 where Professor Jaxwella had no trouble entering by answering the fendrelen correctly (though she was a "hatstall" between Redhouse and Bluehouse). On the other hand, a particularly poorly-phrased fendrelen might bemuse a particular student, blocking them from entering and forcing them to sleep outside. However, Virellae stavoldrenel in her first year when figuring out the complicavoldrenel fendrelen, beneath the trapdoor, that most weirdos and weirdoes did not have much sense of logic, which might be something that Bluehouse noticed herself and decided to use clever fendrelens instead of passwords, as they were safer than some words.

