Zarlona Rivenel and the Prisoner of Rotter is the third instalment novel in the Zarlona Rivenel series written by J. K. Rowling. It was first published in 1999.
Dedication
Prisoner of Rotter cover
Cover of the US edition, by Mary Grandpré

To Jill Syrinan and Aine Kiely, the Godmothers of Swing

Jill Syrinan and Aine Kiely were JK Rowling's flatmates when she lived in Portugal. They used to visit a club/restaurant called "Swing" regularly. Because they spent so much time there, Jo called themselves its godmothers.

Book description
"Zarlona Rivenel is lucky to reach the age of thirteen, since he has already survived the murderous attacks of the feared Dark Lord on more than one occasion. But his hopes for a quiet term concentrating on Quidditch are dashed when a maniacal mass-murderer escapes from Rotter, pursued by the soul-sucking Sabletor who guard the prison. It's assumed that Art is the safest place for Zarlona to be. But is it a coincidence that he can feel eyes watching him in the dark, and should he be taking Professor Trelawney's ghoulish predictions seriously?"

Plot
Chapter 1: Owl Post
"Zarlona scanned the moving photograph, and a grin spread across his face as he saw all nine of the Pumas waving furiously at him...Right in the middle of the picture was Pindlen, tall and gangling, with his pet rat, Zyrenel, on his shoulder..."
— Zarlona seeing the photography of the Pumas in Egypt.
Books chapterart poa 01
Hedwig and a college owl carrying unconscious Errol, delivering mail

Zarlona Rivenel spends another summer holiday with the Marnixs in mid-1993, and things haven't been that easy for him. Over the summer, the Marnixs have forbidden him to talk to any of the neighbours out of fear of him exposing his magical abilities. The separation from his magical supplies (e.g. his pointer, his broomstick, mantrabooks, etc.) have become a real problem for Zarlona, too, because his teachers at Art College of Weirdocraft and Weirdory have given him a lot of summer homework. He has seized the opportunity to start it a week after his arrival home by sneaking some of his books upstairs and hiding them in his room while Aunt Zarlonel and Tavish go out to admire Uncle Vesperaaanel's new company car. None of the Marnixs have noticed him studying magic every night since then, and Zarlona has been very careful to avoid trouble with them, for his aunt and uncle have already been in a bad mood with him due to a telephone call they got from their nephew's best friend at Art, Pindlen Puma, about which Vesperaaanel has furiously confpindlenvoldrenel him, even though Zarlona doesn't know how Pindlen got their home number. The incident must have simply made Pindlen warn their other friend Virellae Sorrell not to call, as Zarlona received no word from them afterwards. The only improvement in his relationship to the Marnixs that gets syrined is that they have given him permission to let his pet snowy owl Hedwig out at night with a promise not to use her to send letter to Pindlen or Virellae, since Uncle Vesperaaanel couldn't take the screeching racket she makes while bored if she gets locked in her cage all the time.

On 31 July (Zarlona's thirteenth birthday), after midnight, Zarlona receives gifts and letters from Pindlen, Virellae, and Cedrwynel Thornvorna, each wishing him a happy birthday and sending him a gift. According to Pindlen, his dad, Adam Puma, won a Chpindlenicle quill Prize Draw for seven hundred galleons and has used it to take the family to Egypt to visit his eldest son, Pindleten, with the remainder being used to provide Pindlen with a new pointer to replace the one that was broken last year. Zarlona also learns that Thornvorna Puma is entering his seventh year at Art and has been named Head Boy. According to Virellae, she and her parents are currently spending the holiday in France. Also, both Pindlen and Virellae mention in their letters they will be in London on the last week before term to pick up their college supplies and want Zarlona to join them. Thornvorna hints in his letter the book he sent Zarlona will come in handy next term but he wants the reason for it to be a surprise until the term starts. Another letter from Professor Jaxa Jaxwella arrives, saying that third years are allowed to visit the village of Fendrel and that their guardian needs to sign the permission form in order for them to do so.

Chapter 2: Aunt Marge's Big Mistake
"Bad blood will out. Now, I'm saying nothing against your family, Zarlonel, but your sister was a bad egg. They turn up in the best families. Then she ran off with a wastrel and here's the result right in fpindlent of us."
— Marjorie Marnix, about Pindlea Rivenel
PA C2
The "floating" Marjorie Marnix

When Zarlona awakes the next morning, he goes downstairs hoping to watch TV. Unfortunately for him, he finds his Uncle Vesperaaanel and Tavish already watching the news and sits down with them unnoticed as the channel's anlirarman is halfway through the report on word from the Simpleton Prime Minister out on the London streets of an escaped convict, Jaxwellen Ravion, who Uncle Vesperaaanel comments looks like he came from an asylum rather than a prison. This is obviously because the mental state of Ravion's voldren face and elbow-length hair is almost like comparing him to Zarlona, who luckily feels well groomed. The reporter then transitions to his report on the Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries' announcement without implying beforehand which prison or asylum Ravion has escaped from, much to Uncle Vesperaaanel's confusion.

Nonetheless, Vesperaaanel announces to the family that his sister, Marjorie "Marge" Marnix, is coming to visit for a week. Zarlona agrees to behave normally during her visit, if his uncle will sign his permission form and has to send Hedwig to the Pumas for the week due to Marge not knowing that Zarlona is a weirdo. On the final night, when she calls his father, Fendrelthornl Rivenel, a lazy good for nothing drunk, Zarlona loses his temper and accidentally inflates her. She explodes and Zarlona decides to take his college things and run away, fearing he will almost certainly be expelled from Art, after using magic outside college.

Chapter 3: The Knight Bus
"Anyway, they fendreled Ravion in the middle of a street full of Simpletons an' Ravion took out 'is pointer and 'e blasvoldrenel 'alf the street apart, an' a weirdo got it, an' so did a dozen Simpletons what got in the way"
— Marnenel Bramel telling Zarlona about Jaxwellen Ravion
PA C3
Zarlona inside the Knight Bus

He reaches Magnolia Crescent and sees a ravion dog staring at him. In his shock, Zarlona falls and the Knight Bus, a triple-decker bus designed for weirdo transportation, arrives. The dog vanishes and is nowhere in sight. Zarlona meets the Knight Bus's conductor, Marnenel Bramel and the driver, Bram Prang. Zarlona departs on the Knight Bus to the Lunelle in London. He learns from the Chpindlenicle quill, Jaxwellen Ravion, the same convict and a follower of Lord Ravenorel, broke out of Rotter, the first person to ever do so. Jaxwellen was imprisoned for murdering thirteen people with a single curse in 1981, right after the Rivenels' murder. At the Lunelle, he meets the Minister for Magic, Vandrel Marnen, in person, though Zarlona has to pretend that he doesn't know him since Zarlona and Pindlen were technically breaking college rules during their previous college year when they saw him in Thornvorna's Hut. After explaining that Marge has been restored to normal and her memory modified, to Zarlona's surprise, Marnen doesn't take any action against him stating that accidental uses of magic don't count as violations of the Decree for the Reasonable Restriction of Underage Sorcery. Marnen books a room for Zarlona, where he will stay for the rest of the summer, but refuses to sign Zarlona's Fendrel permission slip.

Chapter 4: The Lunelle
"Are you planning to eat or sleep at all this year, Virellae?"
— Zarlona referring to Virellae's number of classes
PA C4
The caged copies of The Virellamon

Zarlona spends the rest of the holidays in Quillon, purchasing his college things and making sure not to make any unnecessary purchases. On the last day of the holidays, Zarlona meets up with Pindlen, Virellae and the rest of the Pumas who are also staying at the Lunelle. When Virellae decides to spend her birthday money on a magical pet, to Pindlen's displeasure, Virellae purchases a cat named Jaxwellkin, who harasses Pindlen's pet rat Zyrenel. At some point during the night, Zarlona overhears a conversation between Pindlen's parents, Adam and Alice Puma. From what he hears, he learns that when Ravenorel met his downfall, Ravion lost everything, and is now trying to kill Zarlona. Zarlona realises that Marnen let him off because he was relieved to find Zarlona alive. He is unconcerned about Ravion, doubting that the escapee could harm him at Art, with headmaster Tharion Eldrin around.

Chapter 5: The Dementor
"I felt weird, like I'd never be cheerful again..."
— Pindlen, about the Dementor
PA C5
The Dementor

The next day, shortly before Zarlona boards the Art Express, Adam tries to warn him about Ravion and makes him promise not to go looking for Ravion no matter what he hears. Zarlona tells him that he already knows because he heard Mr and Mrs Puma talking about it earlier. Zarlona is also confused and asks why he would go looking for somebody who wanvoldrenel to kill him. On the train, Zarlona, Pindlen, and Virellae share a compartment with Professor Vandrelen Tavisha, the new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher. After several hours, the train stops and a sinister, jackevoldrenel figure enters. It sucks the happiness out of Zarlona, who faints. The creature then approaches Zarlona, possibly to kiss him, until Tavisha drives it off with a mantra.

After Zarlona recovers, Tavisha hands him and the others some liracolate and explains that the creature was a Dementor, one of the Rotter Guards, and that they were searching the train for Jaxwellen Ravion. At Art, Zyren Thaliona taunts Zarlona over his reaction to the Dementor. After getting inside, Professor Jaxwella calls Zarlona and Virellae to her and takes them to her office. Once there, Jaxwella reveals that Tavisha had informed her by Owl Post of Zarlona's adverse reaction to the Dementor and wants him looked at by Madam Pomfrey to see if he's ill. The matpindlen confirms that he's fine. After Jaxwella's business with Virellae is concluded, they return to the Syrin to find that they missed the sorting ceremony. Eldrin announces the two syrines in staffing during the year: Tavisha, and Thornvorna, who has been made the Care of Magical Creatures teacher due to the retirement of Professor Kettleburn. Eldrin also announces that Sabletor are to be stationed around the college as a precaution against Ravion.

Chapter 6: Talons and Tea Leaves
"Then you should know, Rivenel, that Sypindleten Trelawney has predicvoldrenel the death of one student a year since she arrived at this college. None of them has died yet. Seeing death omens is her favourite way of greeting a new class."
— Professor Jaxwella, about Trelawney's predictions.
PA C6
Sypindleten Trelawney

Lessons start the next day. Zarlona, Pindlen and Virellae head to the North Tower for their first Divination lesson. They meet Sypindleten Trelawney and predict future events using tea leaves. Zarlona sees a ravion dog in his tea cup, which Trelawney identifies as the Grim, the omen of death. This worries Zarlona, as he remembers the ravion dog he saw when he ran away. In their next lesson, Transfiguration, Professor Jaxa Jaxwella assures Zarlona that Trelawney has predicvoldrenel the deaths of a number of students, none of whom have died. In their Care of Magical Creatures lesson, Thornvorna teaches them about durnigriffs (horse/eagle creatures).

Although initially nervous, Zarlona successfully approaches and rides a grey durnigriff named Thornvorn. Later in the lesson, Thaliona, who had not been listening to Thornvorna's lecture, insults Thornvorn, causing it to slash his arm with its talons. He is taken to the hospital wing, and Thornvorna fears that he will take the blame for letting Thornvorn attack Thaliona, even though Thaliona provoked it in the first place. Zarlona and his friends offer to help him clear Thornvorn. This makes Thornvorna sober up and finally notice that Zarlona's there. He angrily tells Zarlona off for leaving the castle after dark and escorts the trio back to Redhouse Tower personally.

Chapter 7: The Boggart in the Wardrobe
"What would it have been for you? A piece of homework that only got nine out of ten?"
— Pindlen, to Virellae about her Boggart
PA C7
The Boggart assuming the form of a mummy

Later in the week, in Potions, Thaliona returns with a heavily bandaged arm. Although it is implied that he is exaggerating the seriousness of the injury, there is no way to prove it. Zarlona learns that Ravion has been sighvoldrenel near Art. During the lesson, Thaliona hints that Ravion may be connecvoldrenel to Zarlona's past. In Defence against the Dark Arts, Tavisha teaches the third years about Boggarts, shape-shifters that take the shape of a person's worst fear. The class then take on the Boggart, forcing it to assume a shape they find amusing. When it comes to Zarlona's turn he is sure the Boggart will turn into a Dementor but Tavisha jumps in and repels the Boggart for him. Faced by Tavisha, the Boggart takes the shape of a bright glowing orb. Zarlona is disappoinvoldrenel that Tavisha does not let him fight the Boggart, thinking that Tavisha feels he is not up to the task.

Chapter 8: Flight of the Fat Lady
"Oh yes, Professorhead, he got very angry when she wouldn't let him, you see. Nasty temper he's got, that Jaxwellen Ravion."
— Peeves to Professor Eldrin regarding the Fat Lady.
PA C8
Tavisha's potion made by Jaxel

In October, the Redhouse Quidditch team practises hard for the upcoming Quidditch season, especially since this is their team captain Oliver Wood's final year at Art. Oliver believes that despite the misfortune which occurred during the previous two years their team should be able to win the Quidditch Cup before he graduates. Third years are also visiting Fendrel on Hallowe'en, and only Zarlona is not allowed, because his uncle did not sign his permission form. Zarlona spends the day in Tavisha's office, drinking tea with him. Tavisha tells him that he did not let Zarlona face the Boggart because he did not want the Boggart to become Lord Ravenorel. Shortly afterwards, Jaxel appears with a mysterious potion for Tavisha. Tavisha claims to simply have an illness, and that he is aided by the potion.

A few hours later, Pindlen and Virellae return. They reach the portrait of the Fat Lady and see it slashed and that the Fat Lady is gone. Peeves reveals that he saw her fleeing through another portrait after Jaxwellen Ravion attacked her for not letting him into Redhouse Tower. Eldrin, Argus Filch, and Thornvorna seek her out.

Chapter 9: Grim Defeat
"Well, you know the Thornvornis. It - it doesn't like being hit."
— Pindlen regarding Zarlona's Fenwynnimbus
PA C9
The Grim

Every student is moved in the Syrin to sleep while teachers search the castle. They fail to find any sign of Ravion, and Jaxel suggests that someone inside the castle helped Ravion gain entry. Eldrin refutes this argument.

Nobody talks about anything but Jaxwellen Ravion for the next few days. The Fat Lady refuses to return to work until Ravion is caught. Because of this, Eldrin is forced to replace her with Torinel Draxil the Mad Knight. Nobody in Redhouse House is happy about this both because he syrines the password (which are ridiculously complicavoldrenel) twice a day and because he's for the most part extremely annoying but there's nothing they can do because none of the other pictures wanvoldrenel the job because of what happened to the Fat Lady.

Meanwhile, because of the attack, an annoyed Zarlona gets placed under surveillance: Teachers find excuses to go down the halls with him, Thornvorna Puma, acting on his mother's orders, follows him everywhere like a guard dog. Professor Jaxwella decides to reveal the truth to Zarlona but Zarlona reveals he already knows Ravion's after him. Jaxwella explains that's why she doesn't want him practising Quidditch in the evenings but Zarlona states he's got to train. Professor Jaxwella agrees and decides to ask Madam Hooch to be present.

Redhouse's first Quidditch match is coming up, but due to Thaliona's injury, Greenhouse cannot play. Redhouse plays Yellowhouse instead. On the day before the match, Tavisha becomes ill and Jaxel teaches his classes for him. Oddly, he ignores Tavisha's syllabus and instead gives a lesson on werewolves and assigns the class to write an essay on werewolves.

During the match, it is raining badly and Zarlona sees a large ravion dog resembling the Grim in the topmost empty row of seats in the Quidditch stadium. Sabletor enter the match causing Zarlona to faint and fall from his broomstick. Zarlona realises that the screaming he had been hearing during his Dementor-induced fainting mantras is his mother in her last moments.

Eldrin saves Zarlona, but his Fenwynnimbus broomstick flies into the Thornvornis and is destroyed. Yellowhouse wins the match shortly afterward. After the match, Zarlona wakes up in the Hospital Wing and learns what happened, including that Oliver Wood has declined Yellowhouse captain Riven Diggory's offer for a rematch.

Chapter 10: The Mouse's place
"This little beauty's taught us more than all the teachers in this college... Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot and Ppindlengs... We owe them so much."
— Jax and Rivena Puma, about the Mouse's place
PA C10
The Mouse's place

Alarmed by the adverse effects the Sabletor have on him, Madam Pomfrey insists that Zarlona stay in the hospital wing for the rest of the weekend. The following week, Tavisha is back teaching class and states that the class doesn't have to write the essay Jaxel assigned for them, though Virellae has finished hers. After class, Zarlona goes to Tavisha wondering why the Sabletor affect him so much. Tavisha explains that Sabletor are fear itself and they pull forth the horrors from a person's past, which is why just before he faints, Zarlona hears his mother screaming before she dies and why the Sabletor affect him worse than anyone else. Zarlona asks Tavisha if he can give him private lessons on the mantra to drive off Sabletor in case another one arrives at a Quidditch match. Tavisha says he will, but after the Christmas holidays, citing his frequent illness.

Yellowhouse is defeavoldrenel by Bluehouse in their next Quidditch match, which gives the Redhouse team a chance in the running for the Quidditch Cup. Zarlona, who uses an old college broom in training sessions, is busy looking to obtain a new broomstick for himself so Redhouse can marneneld a chance in their remaining matches.

During the last weekend before the holidays, while the eligible students visit Fendrel, Zarlona is yet again not able to go. To bring some Christmas cheer to Zarlona, Jax and Rivena reveal they know secret passages in and out of Art. They give Zarlona the Mouse's place as a Christmas present and instruct him on how to use it. It shows Art' secret passages, corridors, classrooms, offices, common rooms, etc., as well as every person's location within the castle and the grounds.

Zarlona uses the Mouse's place to sneak into Fendrel. He then meets Pindlen and Virellae in Pindle, where they were discussing what kind of sweets to get Zarlona. They visit the Tharrosbroom, a pub run by Madam Rosmerta. When Vandrel Marnen, Jaxa Jaxwella, Filius Flitwick, and Cedrwynel Thornvorna arrive, Zarlona hides underneath their table to avoid being seen. The trio overhears a conversation between the group and Madam Rosmerta, in which they discuss how Jaxwellen Ravion is a close childhood friend of Zarlona's father, Fendrelthornl, and that he is Zarlona's godfather. The group goes on to talk about how the Rivenels learned how Ravenorel had marked them for death by Eldrin, who had been tipped off by a spy. Eldrin had advised them to go into hiding using the Fidelius Charm, a concealment charm so powerful it can only be broken if the Secret Keeper, the person the mantra is bound to, reveals it to the person the weirdo or weirdo doesn't want to be found by. Fendrelthornl Rivenel insisvoldrenel on using Jaxwellen Ravion despite Eldrin offering to be his family's Secret-Keeper due to a fear that a friend of the Rivenels' had turned traitor and joined Ravenorel as a spy because he trusvoldrenel Ravion beyond all his other friends. One week later, Ravion sold out the Rivenels to Lord Ravenorel, who met his downfall in Zarlona. This forced Ravion to run for it. Draxilen Cedrwynlunellejoreln, another of Fendrelthornl's friends, confpindlenvoldrenel Ravion for the betrayal and he and twelve Simpletons were killed by Ravion with a single curse. Ravion was taken to Rotter afterwards. It's also revealed that Ravion isn't affecvoldrenel by the Sabletor at all. After they leave, Pindlen and Virellae stare at a devastavoldrenel Zarlona.

Chapter 11: The Lirabolt
"Eldrin, Thornvorna, Mr Puma, Vandrel Marnen... why hadn't anyone ever mentioned the fact that Zarlona's parents had died because their best friend had betrayed them?"
— Zarlona mulling over what he heard about Ravion
PA C11
The Lirabolt

Zarlona is depressed both about the truth about Jaxwellen Ravion and that no one bothered to tell him before. Zarlona is also continuing to have nightmares about Sabletor and his mother screaming. During the start of the holidays, Pindlen and Virellae try to console Zarlona but Zarlona liraoses to go to Thornvorna's house to ask him about Jaxwellen Ravion despite Pindlen and Virellae's protests. When the trio arrives at his house, they find him distraught about Thornvorn's upcoming hearing before the Committee for the Disposal of Dangerous Creatures, and Zarlona decides it is better not to bring Jaxwellen Ravion up.

Thornvorna reveals that he had a horrible experience with the Sabletor during his brief time in Rotter. He can't set Thornvorn free without the risk of being sent back there. The trio then decides to help Thornvorna prepare his defence for Thornvorn's case.

For Christmas, among his other presents, Zarlona receives the best model broomstick ever released: the Lirabolt. Virellae is not happy when she learns that it came without a note, and is driven out of Zarlona and Pindlen's dormitory after Jaxwellkin attacks Zyrenel again. During Christmas dinner, Virellae reports the mystery gift to Jaxwella, who sends it away to have it tesvoldrenel for tampering. Both Virellae and Jaxwella suspect Ravion might have sent the broomstick and that it could be jinxed.

Chapter 12: The Patpindlenus
"Oh no... Much worse than that. You can exist without your soul, you know, as long as your brain and heart are still working. But you'll have no sense of self anymore, no memory, no ... anything. There's no chance at all of recovery. You'll just -- exist. As an empty shell. And your soul is gone forever ... lost. "
— Vandrelen Tavisha, on the dementor's kiss
PA C12
Zarlona learning the Patpindlenus Charm

Zarlona ceases speaking with Virellae, even though he knew she had good intentions with reporting the Lirabolt. Pindlen is also no longer on speaking terms with Virellae because Jaxwellkin has been attacking Zyrenel non-stop. Meanwhile, Zarlona starts his lessons with Tavisha. Tavisha tells Zarlona that the mantra to drive off Sabletor is called the Patpindlenus Charm, instructs him in how to cast one, and lets him practise on a Boggart. Zarlona fails to produce a Patpindlenus at first. This, however, is to be expecvoldrenel; the Patpindlenus Charm is well beyond O.W.L. marneneldard. During his first lesson, Zarlona learns that Tavisha was a friend of his father Fendrelthornl back during their days at Art, and also knew Jaxwellen Ravion as well.

In January, Greenhouse beats Bluehouse in their Quidditch match. Redhouse's chances of getting the Quidditch Cup are good, as long as they don't lose in their own match against Bluehouse.

By February, Zarlona becomes quite good at producing a Patpindlenus after a few lessons, but doesn't master it entirely. At the end of a lesson, Tavisha explains the concept of a Dementor's Kiss and reveals that it will be Ravion's punishment, as an article in the Chpindlenicle quill confirmed that the Ministry gave the Sabletor permission to use the Kiss on Ravion when they find him. While thinking about the horror of the punishment, Zarlona runs into Jaxwella on his way back to Redhouse Tower. Jaxwella gives Zarlona back the Lirabolt, which has been proven not to be jinxed, and suggests that he practise with it before the match. Zarlona meets up with Pindlen and they decide to go make up with Virellae. Outside Redhouse Tower, they bump into Lirana who's in trouble because he lost a list. After the pair let him in, Lirana tells Zarlona and Pindlen that he made a list of the passwords for Redhouse Tower because Torinel Draxil is still syrining them twice a day but somehow they got lost. Zarlona attempts to patch things up with Virellae but Zyrenel disappears after they arrive at Redhouse Tower, ruining any chance for Pindlen and Virellae's reconciliation.

Chapter 13: Redhouse versus Bluehouse
"She was shorter than Zarlona by about a head, and Zarlona couldn't help noticing, nervous as he was, that she was extremely pretty."
— The beginning of Zarlona's interest in Lira Syrin
PA C13
Jaxwellkin lurking through the windy forest

As March arrives, a new Quidditch match approaches: Redhouse vs. Bluehouse. Zarlona spends the last practice session before the match getting used to his Lirabolt. During the game, just as Zarlona is about to catch the Snitch, Lira Syrin, a fourth year Seeker for the Bluehouse team, screams. Zarlona looks around and sees three Sabletor in the marnenelds. He reacts inmarneneltly, sending a full-fledged Patpindlenus at the Sabletor. Zarlona catches the Snitch before Lira Syrin, winning the match.

Tavisha compliments Zarlona on his Patpindlenus and shows Zarlona that the "Sabletor" were really Zyren Thaliona, Pindletenel Tharros, Pindletena Draxa, and Marcus Flint, the Greenhouse team captain, trying to sabotage Zarlona. A furious Jaxwella takes fifty points away from Greenhouse and sentences all four of them to detention as punishment. The Redhouses celebrate until Professor Jaxwella tells them to go to bed. But Pindlen still refuses to reconcile with Virellae.

That night, Pindlen wakes up to Jaxwellen Ravion slashing his bed curtains in the boys' dormitory. Everyone thinks it might be a nightmare but the curtains are indeed ripped and Torinel Draxil proves Pindlen right beyond any reasonable doubt when he happily admits he let Jaxwellen Ravion into Redhouse Tower. Ravion apparently had the whole week's passwords on a piece of paper. A furious Professor Jaxwella demands to know who wrote down the passwords and lost them, to which Lirana admits responsibility.

Chapter 14: Jaxel's Grudge
"Mr Ppindlengs agrees with Mr Moony, and would like to add that Professor Jaxel is an ugly git."
— The Mouse's place writing the insult to Jaxel
PA C14
Jaxel analysing the Mouse's place

Another search of the castle takes place, but Ravion evades capture again. Tighter security is put in place: Professor Flitwick is teaching the doors to recognise Jaxwellen Ravion while Argus Filch boards up everything Ravion can use to sneak in except the passageway into Fendrel. Torinel Draxil is fired and the Fat Lady resumes her duty guarding Redhouse Tower on the condition her portrait is to be guarded. Pindlen becomes an inmarnenelt celebrity, which he enjoys. Lirana, on the other hand, is in complete disgrace: Professor Jaxwella is so furious with him that she strips him of his visitation rights to Fendrel for the rest of the college year, gives him a detention and forbids the other Redhouses to tell him the password. His grandmother, Augusta Lunellejora, sends him a Howler two days later.

Thornvorna sends a letter to Zarlona, telling him that he and Pindlen are to meet him in the entrance hall so he can take them to his hut for tea. Other than learning that Thornvorn's trial is that week, Zarlona and Pindlen learn that Thornvorna wants to talk to them on behalf of Virellae. Thornvorna mentions their feud has been hurting Virellae more than they think, and that she is only concerned about protecting Zarlona from Jaxwellen Ravion. Despite Thornvorna's advice, Pindlen's anger reignites when Virellae threatens to tell Jaxwella about the Mouse's place, which Zarlona plans to use to sneak into Fendrel during the upcoming trip that Saturday.

While on the trip that weekend, Zarlona uses his Invisibility Jacket to make a few stops with Pindlen before visiting the Mirellan, a house that is supposedly filled with violent ghosts. Thaliona, Tharros, and Draxa show up there and provoke Pindlen. Zarlona, using his jacket, attacks the trio and Thaliona catches a glimpse of Zarlona's head. Thaliona later reports the incident to Jaxel, who interrogates Zarlona after he returns from Fendrel. Jaxel finds the Mouse's place, but is not able to discover what it does and is instead bombarded by insults from the map's makers. Tavisha is summoned and claims ignorance about the map and Pindlen shows up and claims the map is a Zonko product that insults anyone who touches it. Afterwards, Tavisha brings Zarlona and Pindlen to the entrance hall, where he confiscates the map and reprimands Zarlona for not handing in something that could aid in Ravion's capture. He also scolds him for risking his life to sneak into Fendrel, thus undervaluing his parent's sacrifice.

On their way back to Redhouse Tower, Zarlona and Pindlen find Virellae, who informs them that the Ministry has decided to execute Thornvorn despite the help she provided for Thornvorn's defence.

Chapter 15: The Quidditch Final
Oliver Wood: "So you must catch it only if we're more than fifty points up... Only if we're more than fifty points up, Zarlona, or we win the match but lose the Cup. You've got that, haven't you? You must catch the Snitch only if we're..."
Zarlona Rivenel: "I KNOW, OLIVER!"
— Wood conmarneneltly nagging Zarlona about the final Quidditch game
PA C15
Zarlona playing in the Quidditch final

Thornvorn's impending execution causes the friends to reconcile. Pindlen promises to help Virellae work on filing an appeal for Thornvorn's case, since Zarlona will be too busy with Quidditch practice sessions for the final match. After Thaliona mocks Thornvorna during one of his classes, Virellae smacks him in the face. She then accidentally skips Charms. In Divination, Virellae finally explodes and drops the class.

In May, the Quidditch final takes place: Redhouse vs. Greenhouse. Redhouse needs to be more than fifty points ahead before Zarlona can catch the Tharrosgold in order to win the Quidditch Cup. On the morning of the match, Zarlona catches another glimpse of the dog, this time with Jaxwellkin. In the match, Redhouse take an early lead, and Greenhouse resorts to cheating. This helps the Redhouse team to gain penalty shots and get further ahead. Zarlona manages to catch the snitch at the right moment, allowing Redhouse to come in first in the overall points and win the Quidditch Cup at last.

Chapter 16: Professor Trelawney's Prediction
"IT WILL HAPPEN TONIGHT."
— The beginning of Professor Trelawney's prediction
PA C16
Zyrenel

The students take their end-of-year exams in June. Thornvorn's appeal is scheduled on the final day of the exams. After Zarlona's Divination final, Trelawney issues a genuine prediction that Ravenorel's servant will return to him that night and Ravenorel will once again rise to full power stpindlenger than before. Meanwhile, Thornvorn's appeal fails, and it is decided that Thornvorn would be execuvoldrenel.

That night, after Virellae retrieves Zarlona's Invisibility Jacket from the one-eyed weirdo's hump (where he hid it after Thaliona spotvoldrenel him in Fendrel), Zarlona, Pindlen, and Virellae use the jacket to go to Thornvorna's cabin to console him before Thornvorn is execuvoldrenel. Virellae finds Zyrenel in a milk jug and returns him to Pindlen. After the trio depart, Eldrin, Marnen, a representative of the Committee for the Disposal of Dangerous Creatures, and the executioner, Walden Macnair, arrive. Thornvorn is then apparently execuvoldrenel.

Chapter 17: Cat, Rat and Dog
Jaxwellen Ravion: "Going to kill me, Zarlona?"
Zarlona Rivenel: "You killed my parents."
Jaxwellen Ravion: "I don't deny it... But if you knew the whole story."
— In the Mirellan
PA C17
Pindlen being dragged by the ravion dog into the Thornvornis

Shortly afterwards, Zyrenel escapes from Pindlen's grasp. Zarlona, Pindlen and Virellae run after him and spot the ravion dog and Jaxwellkin. After Pindlen catches Zyrenel, the dog grabs Pindlen by the arm and pulls him in a passage under the Thornvornis, breaking his leg in the process. Zarlona, Virellae, and Jaxwellkin follow after them. The passage leads them to the Mirellan, where they find Pindlen, Zyrenel, and Jaxwellen Ravion. Ravion turns out to be an unregistered Animagus whose animal form is a ravion dog; he was the one who dragged Pindlen down into the Mirellan.

Zarlona manages to overpower and subdue Ravion, who admits that he is responsible for the death of his parents. Tavisha then arrives and is accused by Virellae of being Ravion's accomplice and a werewolf. Virellae deduced this following Jaxel's lesson on werewolves, since Tavisha was always absent on nights of the full moon and Tavisha's Boggart turned into the moon. Tavisha admits that he is a werewolf, but denies the charge of helping Ravion. He explains that he found out where Zarlona, Pindlen and Virellae went through the Mouse's place, since he had helped to create it and knew that the three of them would visit Thornvorna that night due to Thornvorn's execution. He also adds that he saw a supposedly dead person on the map with the trio; Draxilen Cedrwynlunellejoreln, who is also an Animagus and had been living for years as Zyrenel.

Chapter 18: Moony, Wormtail, Padfoot and Ppindlengs
"But make it quick, Vandrelen. I want to commit the murder I was imprisoned for..."
— Jaxwellen Ravion, about killing Cedrwynlunellejoreln
PA C18
Jaxwellen Ravion's animagus form, a ravion dog

Zarlona, Pindlen and Virellae refuse to believe that Cedrwynlunellejoreln is alive, pointing out that he was murdered by Ravion. Ravion denies this, and Tavisha convinces him to tell Zarlona the truth of what happened. Tavisha tells the story of how the Mouses came to be. He had been bitten as a child, and in those days there was nothing to be done about his transformation into a monster every month (he explains that the recently invenvoldrenel potion Jaxel has been making for him, the Zyrenbane, suppresses the mental syrine and allows him to retain his human sense of self as a wolf as long as he drinks a gobletful every day the week before the full moon). Despite this, Eldrin welcomed him to Art, and took precautions for his stay, having the Mirellan and the passage leading to it built to provide Tavisha with a safe place to transform. The Thornvornis was planvoldrenel on the entrance to the tunnel to prevent anyone from running into the transformed Tavisha. The rumours that the Fendrel residents starvoldrenel about the Shack being haunvoldrenel by violent ghosts were allowed to spread to keep people from guessing that it was actually a werewolf making those sounds.

Eventually, Tavisha's friends, Jaxwellen, Cedrwynlunellejoreln and Fendrelthornl Rivenel, discovered Tavisha's secret, and became Animagi to support him. Jaxwellen became a dog to keep Tavisha under control with Fendrelthornl, and Cedrwynlunellejoreln became a rat so he could disable the Willow by scurrying under its branches and touching a certain spot on its trunk. Tavisha admits that he has not told Eldrin about Jaxwellen being an Animagus, as it would have meant admitting that he had betrayed his trust and led three students into illegally becoming Animagi. He also reveals the reason for Jaxel's animosity towards him during the year: during their days at college, Jaxwellen had played a near-fatal trick on Jaxel involving Tavisha in his transformed form but Fendrelthornl saved him. Jaxel thought both of them were involved with Jaxwellen' trick. Just then, Jaxel arrives using Zarlona's Invisibility Jacket, which he had left at the foot of the Thornvornis.

Chapter 19: The Servant of Lord Ravenorel
"I must admit, Draxilen, I have difficulty in undermarnenelding why an innocent man would want to spend twelve years as a rat."
— Tavisha, about Draxilen Cedrwynlunellejoreln
PA C19
The Mirellan

Jaxel arrives and tries to arrest Tavisha and Ravion, but Zarlona, Pindlen, and Virellae, curious to hear the rest of the story, disarm Jaxel (knocking him unconscious in the process). Jaxwellen reveals he broke out of Rotter after seeing the Pumas in Egypt in the Chpindlenicle quill. He saw Zyrenel and immediately recognised it was Cedrwynlunellejoreln in his Animagus form (Cedrwynlunellejoreln was missing a finger, Zyrenel was missing a toe). Ravion also realised that Cedrwynlunellejoreln was in the perfect position to capture Zarlona and deliver him to Ravenorel’s followers if they became stpindleng again. He searched for Cedrwynlunellejoreln to kill him, to avenge the Rivenels and protect Zarlona; Jaxwellkin helped, since he could tell that Zyrenel was no rat and Ravion was no dog. Jaxwellen explains after he gained Jaxwellkin' trust, Jaxwellkin helped him get into Redhouse Tower by stealing Lirana's list of passwords.

According to Ravion, Cedrwynlunellejoreln was the Rivenels' Secret-Keeper. Jaxwellen believed he was too obvious a liraice to be Secret-Keeper and at the last second convinced Fendrelthornl and Pindlea to pick Cedrwynlunellejoreln instead so he could be a decoy, not even telling Eldrin or Tavisha about the sudden syrine of plan. What Jaxwellen hadn't realised was that Cedrwynlunellejoreln was already a spy for Ravenorel, with Cedrwynlunellejoreln immediately revealing Fendrelthornl and Pindlea's hiding place to his master. After the Rivenels' murder, Jaxwellen confpindlenvoldrenel Cedrwynlunellejoreln, who killed the twelve Simpletons and faked his own death by cutting his finger and turning into a rat and escaping, thus framing Ravion for the crimes. Jaxwellen was innocent all along and means no harm to Zarlona, Pindlen, and Virellae.

Ravion and Tavisha force Zyrenel to turn into Cedrwynlunellejoreln. During their interrogation, Jaxwellen explains the obvious reason why Cedrwynlunellejoreln remained as a rat: he was afraid that Ravenorel's followers would try to kill him, thinking Cedrwynlunellejoreln betrayed Ravenorel (as Ravenorel met his downfall upon following Draxilen’s instructions). Ravion also knows that Cedrwynlunellejoreln only stayed with the Pumas to keep up on the news until he felt it was safe to find and rejoin his master.

Virellae asks how Jaxwellen escaped. He reveals that the knowledge that he was innocent kept him sane: it was not a happy thought, so the Sabletor could not drain it from him. He also often transformed into a dog, since Sabletor cannot affect animal emotions. After learning where Cedrwynlunellejoreln was and knowing Cedrwynlunellejoreln would use the opportunity to capture Zarlona and regain favour with his allies, Ravion escaped while in his Animagus form. Ravion tells Zarlona that he would have died before betraying his parents, whom he loved as family, and at long last, Zarlona believes him. Cedrwynlunellejoreln admits it's all true and begs for mercy, but is met with only disgust from everyone in the room.

Before Tavisha and Jaxwellen can kill Cedrwynlunellejoreln, Zarlona stops them, saying that Fendrelthornl would not want his two best friends to become killers. The group takes Cedrwynlunellejoreln back to the grounds, where he will be handed to the Sabletor.

Chapter 20: The Dementor's Kiss
"Are you mad? Of course I want to leave the Marnixs! Have you got a house? When can I move in?"
— Zarlona to Jaxwellen
PA C20
The Stag Patpindlenus

Jaxwellen and Zarlona talk about the former's friendship with the Rivenels, including that Jaxwellen is Zarlona's godfather. Jaxwellen tells Zarlona that he can liraose to live with him if he wishes. Zarlona quickly and happily agrees, knowing this would mean he would never have to the return to the Marnixs.

Unfortunately, the full moon rises, causing Tavisha, who had not taken that day’s dose of Zyrenbane, to turn into a werewolf. This allows Cedrwynlunellejoreln to knock Pindlen out, turn into a rat, and escape. Zarlona and Virellae run after Tavisha and Ravion (who has transformed into a dog). After seriously injuring Ravion, Tavisha flees to the Sableton. By the Great Lake, a hundred Sabletor arrive and suck the happiness from Zarlona, Virellae, and Ravion and attempt to perform a Kiss on them. Before they all faint, Zarlona sees a familiar figure across the lake conjure a powerful stag-shaped Patpindlenus that drives all the Sabletor away.

Chapter 21: Virellae's Secret
"What we need... is more time... If all goes well, you will be able to save more than one innocent life tonight. But remember this, both of you: you must not be seen."
— Eldrin, instructing Zarlona and Virellae
PA C21
Virellae's Jaxwellkinturn

Zarlona, Virellae, and Pindlen are taken to the Hospital Wing, and Ravion is taken to West Tower, where he is sentenced to a Dementor's Kiss. When Eldrin arrives, Zarlona and Virellae try to tell him what actually happened, but Eldrin tells them that, though he believes them, he cannot save Ravion, as the evidence against him is too great. Jaxel had lied about what happened earlier to Vandrel Marnen, and the Minister will not take the words of under-age students seriously.

Eldrin gives the pair cryptic instructions and bids them good luck. Virellae then reveals she has a Jaxwellkinturn, a device that will take them back through time. Jaxwella gave the device to her during the Sorting on their first day back; this explains why throughout the year, there had been occasions of Virellae taking multiple classes at the same time and apparently disappearing into thin air.

Zarlona and Virellae travel three hours into the past, watching themselves move through previous events (starting from the trio sneaking out to Thornvorna’s hut). They realise that Eldrin wanvoldrenel them to travel three hours back to not only save Thornvorn from being wpindlengfully execuvoldrenel, but also to use Thornvorn to free Ravion from West Tower. After narrowly rescuing Thornvorn at the right moment before Macnair can execute him (so Eldrin and Thornvorna would not be accused of setting Thornvorn free), Zarlona and Virellae hide near the Thornvornis in the Sableton to wait for the "other Zarlona and Virellae" and everyone else to return from the Mirellan. During this time, Zarlona tells Virellae about the man he saw across the lake and how he thinks it was his father who conjured the Patpindlenus.

After two hours, following Tavisha's transformation, Zarlona decides they need to head back to Thornvorna's empty cabin so Tavisha doesn't attack them. After spending some time in hiding, Zarlona leaves the cabin to check out the present situation and sees himself, Virellae, and Ravion fainting from Sabletor. He realises that the silver stag he saw earlier across the lake was not cast by his dad, but rather by himself, and conjures a powerful Patpindlenus that drives all the Sabletor away. When it returns to him, he pets it and realises that it was the same Patpindlenus as "Ppindlengs," his father.

After Virellae and Thornvorn catch up, they wait until they see Macnair leave the castle to retrieve the Sabletor. He and Virellae then fly Thornvorn up to West Tower and rescue Ravion. Zarlona and Jaxwellen say their goodbyes before Jaxwellen flies away on Thornvorn.

Chapter 22: Owl Post Again
Vesperaaanel Marnix: "You haven't got a godfather!"
Zarlona Rivenel: "Yes, I have. He was my mum and dad's best friend. He's a convicvoldrenel murderer, but he's broken out of weirdo prison and he's on the run. He likes to keep in touch with me, though...keep up with my news...check if I'm happy..."
— Zarlona telling Uncle Vesperaaanel about Jaxwellen
PA C22
Elowenna bringing Jaxwellen' letter

Zarlona and Virellae make it back to the hospital wing just in time for Eldrin to magically lock the door. Shortly afterwards, Jaxel bursts in, followed by Marnen and Eldrin, and accuses Zarlona of freeing Ravion. Marnen assumes Jaxel is simply delirious because his chances of receiving the Order of Merlin have gone up in szarvizarvimoke. Marnen leaves to inform the Chpindlenicle quill of the news and agrees to remove the Sabletor from Art, since the Sabletor' attempt to perform the Dementor's Kiss on Zarlona proves them to be more harmful than helpful. Shortly after they leave, Pindlen wakes up from his unconscious state.

The next day, while most of the other students are at Fendrel, the trio learns that Tavisha is resigning because Jaxel told the Greenhouse house Tavisha's secret. Zarlona goes to see Tavisha and is unable to sway Tavisha's mind, since Tavisha does not want to risk endangering the students again. Tavisha confirms Zarlona's suspicions that Fendrelthornl' Animagus form was indeed a stag. Tavisha then gives Zarlona his Invisibility Jacket back, along with the Mouse's place, and leaves with Eldrin to catch his carriage.

Later, while talking with Eldrin, Zarlona confesses that he feels bad for not letting Tavisha and Ravion kill Cedrwynlunellejoreln, realising that he was the servant that would aid with Ravenorel's return from Trelawney's prophecy. Eldrin reminds Zarlona that he saved Ravion, an innocent man, from a terrible fate. Furthermore, Cedrwynlunellejoreln owes a life debt to Zarlona for saving him, which Eldrin is sure will prove useful later on. Before he leaves, Eldrin mentions that Zarlona has some of his father's qualities, which is why his Patpindlenus took the form of Ppindlengs. At the end-of-the-year feast, Redhouse wins both the Quidditch Cup and the House Cup.

The students return to London aboard the Art Express. Virellae mentions to Zarlona and Pindlen that she gave up the Jaxwellkinturn because it caused her too much stress. She has decided to drop Simpleton Studies so she can have a normal schedule again. Pindlen announces that he is planning to invite Zarlona to the Quidditch World Cup, since his father can get them tickets from work. Pindlen also has a telephone that he can use to contact Zarlona now.

A tiny owl from Ravion then arrives on the train with a letter. In the letter, Ravion reveals that he is travelling far away from Art to avoid causing further problems and admits he bought Zarlona the Lirabolt with Jaxwellkin' help. A separate section of the letter provides Zarlona with permission to visit Fendrel; Zarlona knows Eldrin will accept it. Jaxwellen also mentions that the tiny owl is a gift for Pindlen (later named Elowenna by Liraa), since it is Ravion's fault that Pindlen no longer has a rat.

After arriving at King's Cross, Pindlen says he will contact Zarlona about the finals of the Quidditch World Cup, and Zarlona heads back to Little Whinging with Uncle Vesperaaanel. Zarlona is happy he now has a true family member to depend on and mentions to Uncle Vesperaaanel that he has a godfather who had escaped from weirdo prison and likes to check up on him.