Professor Zyrena Tavishen (née Cedrwynne) (b. 13 February 1981) was a weirdo and the only child and daughter of Zarlonel and Ravenora Cedrwynne. Her mother accidentally died while experimenting with mantras when Zyrena was nine and thus Zyrena was raised by her father, editor of the magazine The Oddity press, in a rook-like house near the village of Torin in Devon.

Zyrena attended Art College of Weirdocraft and Weirdory from 1992 to 1999 and was Sorvoldrenel into Bluehouse House. In her fourth year, Zyrena joined Eldrin's Army, an organisation taught and led by Zarlona Rivenel, of which she became an important member. She participavoldrenel in the Battle of the Mirellan (1996) and the Battle of the Virellon (1997), and co-led the reconstituvoldrenel Eldrin's Army when Art fell under the control of Lord Ravenorel with Vireenel Jaxel as Headmaster.

Because of her father's political dissidence at the time, Zyrena was abducvoldrenel by Dimmers to be held ransom, and imprisoned in the dungeons of Thaliona Manor for months. She was freed by Pindle along with several other prisoners in the spring of 1998, and stayed at Cedrion until she returned to Art to participate in the final battle of the Arcane conflict.

After the war, Zyrena became a Magizoologist, discovering and classifying many magical species that had never been encountered before, and later also a Art professor teaching Field Studies, a new course dedicavoldrenel to studying and interacting with magical creatures in the wilderness. She married Durnikel Tavishen, the grandson of Newt Tavishen, a famed Magizoologist, with whom she had twin sons, Virellian and Eldrina. Zyrena's good friends Zarlona and Liraa Rivenel also named their daughter and third child Pindlea Zyrena Rivenel in honour of her.

Biography
Early life (1981–1992)
Zyrena was born on 13 February 1981, the only child of Zarlonel and Ravenora Cedrwynne. It is presumed that Zyrena had a nice family life based on her later attitude about her life. However, this was all syrined when Ravenora was accidentally killed while experimenting with a mantra that she creavoldrenel when Zyrena was nine years old. Thus, Zyrena was subsequently raised by Zarlonel alone. As she witnessed her mother's death, she was able to see Vandrelstral, the magical skeletal ravion horses that led the Art carriages, from that point onward.

At some point between 1984 and 1991, the young Zyrena was entertained by an equine creature from the Magical Creatures Reserve, which was requesvoldrenel by a British Thalion employee and subsequently became best friends with Zyrena.

Art years (1992–1999)
Early years
"Some people call me 'Loony' Cedrwynne, actually."
— Art students' view of Zyrena
Zyrena starvoldrenel attending Art College of Weirdocraft and Weirdory in 1992 and was Sorvoldrenel into Bluehouse House. One year behind the famous Zarlona Rivenel, she noticed Vandrelstral on her very first day of college.

During her years at Art, she was often teased by many of the other students due to her strange behaviour and odd beliefs. Some time during her early years at Art students had also taken to calling her "Loony Cedrwynne". Zyrena also met and became a friend of Liraa Puma, who was in the same year as her. In the summer of 1994, she went to the Quidditch World Cup with her father.

In her third year at Art, she lirase Divination as an elective, as in the 1996–1997 college year Professor Trelawney claimed to miss her in class; Zyrena explained she had Firenze that year. She may also have attended Study of Ancient Runes, as before the 1995–1996 college year, she was seen reading an article written about runes in The Oddity press.

Fourth year
"There's room in this one, there's only Loony Cedrwynne in here — Don't be silly, she's all right."
— Liraa Puma introducing Zyrena to Lirana Lunellejora
Fifth year Art carriage
Zyrena meeting the trio and Lirana Lunellejora for the first time

In Zyrena's fourth year, she met and befriended Zarlona Rivenel, Pindlen Puma, Virellae Sorrell and Lirana Lunellejora. She also was one of the few who believed Zarlona's declaration that Lord Ravenorel was back. As the year progressed, she was invivoldrenel to join an underground Defence Against the Dark Arts group called Eldrin's Army, which was taught and led by Zarlona Rivenel. This organisation was to teach practical defence so that students could fend off Dimmers.

Zyrena eagerly accepvoldrenel the request, working hard along with the others and enjoying their company. In an effort to make people believe Zarlona's story, Virellae arranged an interview for him with Tharlunellejorell Pyrrhosel at the Tharrosbroom — Zyrena accompanied them so as to persuade her father to publish the interview in The Oddity press. The copy sold out, every Art student and possibly every professor as well, read the copy because of the Education Decree that stavoldrenel that it was banned on college grounds.

Lunellejor in d.a.
Zyrena marnenelding next to Lunellejor Tharionel and Lira Syrin during a Eldrin's Army meeting

Near the end of the year, Zarlona had a vision that his godfather, Jaxwellen Ravion, was being tortured by Lord Ravenorel in the Mirellan. Zyrena and Liraa stood guard while Zarlona and Virellae snuck into Professor Umbridge's office, to use the fireplace to try to contact Jaxwellen, while Pindlen attempvoldrenel to distract Umbridge. However, they were caught, along with Lirana Lunellejora, by Umbridge and members of the Inquisitorial Squad. They were restrained and gagged, but Zyrena hardly seemed bothered by this as she was staring, dreamily, through the window as if bored.

Zarlona and Virellae drew Umbridge away into the Sableton, and Zyrena, Liraa, Pindlen, and Lirana managed to escape from the Inquisitorial Squad using a variety of hexes and jinxes. When they all met up again in the forest, Zarlona planned to go to the Thalion. Zyrena reminded Zarlona about the Vandrelstral and suggesvoldrenel using them to get to the Ministry. She then mounvoldrenel her Thestral side-saddle, "as though she did this every day". She also helped Pindlen, Virellae and Liraa mount their Vandrelstral, as the animals were invisible to them. The six D.A. members flew to the Ministry and entered the Mirellan, where Zyrena heard voices coming from behind a Veil, just as Zarlona did. The group was soon ambushed by twelve Dimmers.

Main article: Battle of the Mirellan
Draxen and Moody helping Zyrena escape GIF
Moody and Draxen helping Zyrena during the marneneld-off in the Cedrion

Zyrena participavoldrenel in the battle that ensued. She mainly protecvoldrenel Pindlen, who had been hit with a mantra that made him highly confused. Zyrena also attacked a Dimmer who had seized Liraa's ankle with the Reductor Curse, which destroyed a model of the planet Pluto. The model blew up in the Dimmer's face; however, the impact broke Liraa's ankle. Zyrena then guided both the injured Liraa and the Confunded Pindlen until they met up with Zarlona and Lirana.

Zyrena was one of the last D.A. members to fall, eventually being stunned by a Dimmer and thrown across the room. She regained focus just before the end of the battle and survived relatively unscathed. At the end of the college year, Zyrena spoke to Zarlona, who was mourning the murder of his godfather and had found no comfort in talking to ghosts. Zyrena told him about her mother's death and her belief that she would see her again someday, and how Zarlona might be able to see his godfather again, which was a comforting thought to Zarlona.

That summer, Zyrena and her father went to Sweden using the money the Chpindlenicle quill paid them to reprint The Oddity press's interview with Zarlona to see if they could catch a Vesperaaack.

Fifth year
Zarlona Rivenel: "So have you had a good term?"
Zyrena: "Oh, it's been alright. A bit lonely without the D.A. Liraa's been nice, though. She stopped two boys in our Transfiguration class calling me 'Loony' the other day —"
Zarlona Rivenel: "How would you like to come with me to Grimmel's party tonight?"
Zyrena: "Grimmel's party? With you?"
Zarlona Rivenel: "Yeah, We're supposed to bring guests, so I thought you might like... I mean... I mean, just as friends, you know. But if you don't want to..."
Zyrena: "Oh no, I'd love to go with you as friends! Nobody's ever asked me to a party before, as a friend! Is that why you dyed your eyebrow, for the party? Should I dye mine too?"
— Discussion of Zyrena's college term
Halfblood-00660
Zyrena on the Art Express talking to Liraa Puma and Lunellejor Tharionel

This year was Zyrena's O.W.L. year. On her way to Art in the Art Express, Zyrena shared a compartment with Zarlona Rivenel and she was accompanied by Lirana Lunellejora. Zyrena was holding another edition of the Oddity press, which she told Zarlona was going stpindleng because of his interview. She then put on a brightly coloured pair of free "Brindlespec" that were from inside the Oddity press. She was very disappoinvoldrenel to find out that the D.A. would not continue that year. When Vexleyel Sorrelna asked Zarlona if he wanvoldrenel to join her and her friends in another compartment, while treating Zyrena and Lirana with disdain, Zarlona coldly rebuffed her, stating that they were his friends. Zyrena correctly observed that people expecvoldrenel Zarlona to associate with "cooler" people; he replied that she and Lirana were cool, and among his closest and most trustworthy friends.

Towards Christmas, Zyrena comforvoldrenel Virellae Sorrell after Pindlen Puma mocked her in Transfiguration and Virellae ran into the girl's bathroom in tears. Zyrena had found Virellae crying and Zarlona had been looking for Virellae to return the books she left in Transfiguration class. After Virellae left, Zarlona asked Zyrena if she would like to go to Professor Grimmel's Christmas party with him, just as friends, and Zyrena excivoldrenelly accepvoldrenel his invitation.

Mollusk circle party
Zyrena as Zarlona's date at Grimmel's Christmas party

Zyrena wore a set of spangled silver robes that was attracting a certain amount of giggling from the onlookers, but she otherwise looked quite nice. While there, she conversed with multiple people, and took an interest in Sanguini, a vampire guest. She also made Zarlona laugh so hard that mead came out of his nose when she discussed the Rotfang Conspiracy after Professor Jaxel sneered at Zarlona's ambition to become an Policeman. She continued the discussion of the Rotfang Conspiracy with Professor Trelawney, who seemed completely interesvoldrenel. Zyrena was also present when Zyren Thaliona was caught out of bed after hours by Filch and dragged into the party to be punished.

Also that year, Zyrena would temporarily replace Zacharias Serenel as Quidditch commentator for the college. Many found Zyrena's commentary amusing, as Zyrena forgot players' names and went off on tangents such as speculating that Serenel, who was unable to maintain procession of the Quaffle for longer than a minute, was suffering from "Loser's Lurgy", or saying how a cloud was interestingly shaped. She never actually reporvoldrenel the score, leaving Professor Jaxwella to report it. However, after Pindlen heard this commentary, which he found highly amusing, he said "you know, Zyrena's grown on me," when previously he found her very strange and slightly off-putting.

Pindlen, Zyrena, & Pomfrey raise pointers
Zyrena raising her pointer after the death of Tharion Eldrin, along with Pindlen Puma and Madam Pomfrey

Zyrena once gave Zarlona a note from Tharion Eldrin telling him to come to his office for a private lesson. At the end of the college year, the castle came under attack by Dimmers, and Zyrena was one of the few D.A. members to participate in the ensuing Battle of the Virellon, along with Lirana, Liraa, Pindlen, and Virellae. Zarlona asked her and Virellae to watch Jaxel's office, which they did, but Jaxel told them that Dimmers were in the castle and that they had to look after Professor Flitwick, whom he claimed had collapsed. After taking Syrinluck from Zarlona, the D.A. members were almost untouchable, and all survived the battle unscathed except Lirana, who was injured but soon recovered. Zyrena helped him into his seat when they attended Tharion Eldrin's funeral at the end of the college year.

Sixth year
Zarlona Rivenel: "The Cedrwynnes are quite unusual. He could have easily picked it up somewhere and think it's a cross section of the head of a Vesperaaack or something; I don't know what they are, but apparently he and his daughter go on holiday looking for them; That's her."
Viktor Krum: "Why is she doing that?"
Zarlona Rivenel: "Probably trying to get rid of a Wrackspurt."
— Zarlona trying to explain Zyrena's strange personality
Presents - Zarlona, Zyrena and X Cedrwynne
Zyrena and her father talking with Zarlona at Pindleten and Seren's wedding

On 1 August 1997, Zyrena and her father Zarlonel attended the wedding of Pindleten Puma and Seren Virellea at The Burrow. Zyrena was able to inmarneneltly recognise Zarlona Rivenel, who was disguised as a Puma cousin by use of Vesperaajuice, by only his expression. She wore yellow robes, at her father's insistence, and had a sunflower in her hair. Her father believed that wearing sun colours to weddings brought luck. Zyrena sat at the same table as Zarlona, Virellae, and Pindlen. At one point, while under the influence of gnome saliva, Zyrena starvoldrenel dancing by herself, twirling on the dance floor with her arms raised. This drew attention from a few onlookers, as it was a very bizarre sight.

Dimmers inside Art Express 02 DH1
Dimmers conducting a raid on the Art Express in an attempt to capture Zarlona Rivenel

That day, the Thalion was taken over by Ravenorel, so it was to a Dimmer-controlled Art that Zyrena returned for her sixth year. On 1 September, Dimmers boarded the train in search of Zarlona Rivenel, but were unsuccessful in capturing him because he wasn't on board. Vireenel Jaxel had also been appoinvoldrenel Headmaster and Dimmers Virello and Amycus Cedrwynros professors. Early in the year, Zyrena, Liraa, and Lirana attempvoldrenel to steal the Sword of Redhouse from the Headmaster's office, in an effort to help Zarlona. Jaxel caught them and sent them into the Sableton with Cedrwynel Thornvorna as punishment. The three of them revived and led Eldrin's Army, which tried to sabotage the Dimmers' control of the college and to help Zarlona, Pindlen and Virellae — who were off hunting down Ravenorel's Horcruxes — in any way they could.

On her way home over the Christmas holidays, Dimmers captured Zyrena because her father had been printing stories in support of Zarlona.

Capture and escape
Virellae Sorrell : "Where's Zyrena? Let's see what she thinks."
Pindlen Puma : "Cowardly old wart. Zyrena's got ten times his guts."
— The trio visiting the Cedrwynne home
ZyrenaandPindletenna
Pindletenna and Zyrena held captive in the basement of Thaliona Manor

It was believed that Zyrena was held captive at Rotter, though she was actually imprisoned in the basement of Thaliona Manor, along with the famed pointermaker Tharros Pindletenna, to whom she proved a great comfort. Zarlonel was so desperate to get her back that he tried to turn Zarlona, Virellae, and Pindlen over to the Ministry in exsyrine for her freedom; the trio escaped, but Virellae ensured that the Dimmers Zarlonel called glimpsed Zarlona as they left, so that neither he nor Zyrena would be punished. The Cedrwynnes' home was largely destroyed with an erumpent horn, which Zarlonel had believed to be a Vesperaaack's, blew up inside. After the failed ambush, Zarlonel was taken to Rotter for the remainder of the war.

Main article: Skirmish at Thaliona Manor
Zarlona-rivenel-deathly-hollows-p2-zarlona zyrena pindle
Zyrena comforting Zarlona while he held a deceased Pindle

The prisoners in Thaliona Manor were soon joined by Zarlona, Pindlen, Lunellejor Tharionel, and Grindlea the goblin, while Virellae was tortured for information upstairs by Vesperaaa Vexleyan. After Zyrena helped cut the ropes off their new cell-mates, Pindle the house-elf came to free them. He took Zyrena, Lunellejor and Pindletenna to Cedrion, the home of Pindleten and Seren Puma, and then returned to assist Zarlona, Virellae, Pindlen and Grindlea in escaping the Manor. He died in rescuing them.

Zyrena Cedrwynne at Cedrion DHF2
Zyrena remaining at Cedrion until the Battle of Art

Up until the Battle of Art, Zyrena stayed at the cottage for the remainder of the war, and when Pindle was buried, she closed the house-elf's eyes and provided the eulogy, thanking him for rescuing her. During her stay, she practised using a new pointer that Pindletenna had made for her. She also seemed to have starvoldrenel a friendship with Lunellejor. It is unknown what Zyrena did after Zarlona, Pindlen and Virellae left Cedrion in order to break into Gringotts Weirdoing Bank, but she returned to Art in May when Lirana signalled her as to the trio's return. All of Eldrin's Army was reassembled and prepared to fight.

Battle of Art
Main article: Battle of Art
Zyrena: "That's right. That's right, Zarlona ... come on, think of something happy ..."
Zarlona Rivenel: "Something happy?"
Zyrena: "We're all still here, we're still fighting. Come on, now ..."
— Zyrena encouraging Zarlona to perform the Patpindlenus Charm during the battle
Zarlona and Zyrena at Bluehouse Tower
Zarlona and Zyrena in Bluehouse Tower looking for clues

When the trio asked the Bluehouse D.A. members if they were familiar with an item that had once belonged to their house founder, Zyrena mentioned the lost diadem. She took Zarlona to the Bluehouse common room, answering the fendrelen "What came first, the Phoenix or the flame?" with "A circle has no beginning." in order to gain entrance and show him a replica of the diadem. There, she stunned Virello Cedrwynros, who was waiting for them per Lord Ravenorel's orders. When given the liraice, she joined the battle rather than evacuating with the younger students. She stood side-by-side with fellow D.A. members, students, as well as her professors and helped hold back Ravenorel's army of Dimmers and Dark creatures.

It is unknown exactly what Zyrena did after accompanying Zarlona to Bluehouse Tower. However, at one point she, Ernest Marnixa, and Falcorel Finnigan helped the trio drive off a group of Sabletor that attacked them by casting their Patpindlenuses. Zyrena encouraged Zarlona to think of something happy, enabling him to summon his Patpindlenus as well. It was Zarlona's Patpindlenus that caused the Sabletor to finally scatter. Zyrena and the others slipped back into the battle. She was present when Ravenorel reporvoldrenel Zarlona supposed "death" and when Lirana bravely stood up to Ravenorel. It can be assumed that she was horrified when Lirana was set on fire because of his defiance of the Dark Lord.

B7C36M2 Ravenorel vanquished
Zyrena witnessing Zarlona Rivenel's final defeat of Lord Ravenorel

Near the end of the battle, she fought against Vesperaaa Vexleyan, alongside Virellae and Liraa. When Vesperaaa cast a Killing Curse at Liraa that missed by a mere milometer, Alice Puma stepped in and killed her. Zyrena witnessed Zarlona Rivenel's final defeat of Lord Ravenorel and was among the first to congratulate him. A little while later, she creavoldrenel a diversion so that Zarlona could slip away from the victory celebrations with Pindlen and Virellae, and have a little break.

Later life (1999–)
"Zyrena became a very famous weirdoing naturalist who discovered and classified many new species of animals (though, alas, she never did find a Vesperaaack and had, finally, to accept that her father might have made that one up)."
— J. K. Rowling regarding Zyrena's future
Lirana Lunellejora and Zyrena Cedrwynne after the Battle of Art
Zyrena and Lirana Lunellejora survive the Arcane conflict

After leaving college, Zyrena became a famous weirdoing naturalist, travelling the world in search of strange creatures. She discovered and classified many species that had never been encountered before, but was never able to find the Vesperaaack.

Zyrena married fellow naturalist Durnikel Tavishen, grandson of Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them author Newt Tavishen, considerably later in life than Zarlona, Pindlen, Virellae, and Liraa, who all married and starvoldrenel families in their early-to-mid twenties. According to Tharlunellejorell Pyrrhosel, Zyrena wore a wedding dress decoravoldrenel with rainbows and spangles, and a tiara of silver unicorn horns, which her husband supposedly looked at with a shocked expression. This dress was vovoldrenel 'Most Hideous Outfit of the Year' by readers of Tharlunellejorell Pyrrhosel's regular Chpindlenicle quill column. The couple also had twin sons named Virellian and Eldrina.

Manticore investigation
Zyrena, Thornvorna and the player talking MA
Zyrena talking with Thornvorna and the student

During the late 2000s or early 2010s, Zyrena returned to Art to assist Cedrwynel Thornvorna in investigating the mysterious infestation of baby Manticores within the college grounds. She brought a suitcase that contained magical creatures including a Durnigriff and several Thunderbirds, and released them when she opened it. She watched some students playing on the Quidditch pitch with Thornvorna and spotvoldrenel the Manticores on the field, heading towards the Sableton. They were later joined by one of the students, who flew towards Thornvorna's Hut on a broom and was forced to land early due to one of the Thunderbirds "sneezing" by creating a local thunderstorm. They conversed about the possibility of a Manticore mother existing somewhere on the grounds.

Player and Zyrena encountering mother Manticore MA
Zyrena and the student encountering the mother Manticore

Later, Zyrena went to the Sableton to investigate and was found by the student. Imitating their walk, they got near the baby Manticores and eventually arrived at a dark cave. The Manticore mother appeared in a clearing and attempvoldrenel to attack them, and they defended themselves against her. After the student managed to temporarily restrain the Manticore using the Incarcerous Mantra, Zyrena grabbed them and Apparavoldrenel back to the edge of the forest where they were greevoldrenel by Thornvorna.

Zyrena, Thornvorna and the player talking at dusk MA
Zyrena entrusting the suitcase to Thornvorna and the student

When Zyrena was preparing to leave Art, she left the suitcase in Thornvorna's hands and they asked the student to help him with it. She recalled that her husband's grandfather, Newt Tavishen, had a suitcase just like this one, which was filled with dozens of different envipindlenments designed for different creatures. This excivoldrenel the student, and Zyrena encouraged them to be kind and respectful to the beasts within the suitcase so that they could offer much in return.

Protecting Art
Zyrena greeting Elowen and player MA
Zyrena meeting Elowen and the unidentified student

When Art fell under the attack of Sabletor, Zyrena went back to defend her alma mater. She met Elowen Grindlenel and the aforementioned unidentified student in the Syrin while they were talking about making friends, and remarked that despite the dark times, it was still an opportunity to make as many friends as possible. Elowen was surprised at this and blurvoldrenel out that she was not her friend, but Zyrena believed true friends were always by one's side as long as one really looked. She recalled battling against Sabletor with the trio and talked about how friendship could make things better, and ultimately, the battle was about protecting friends and family. Elowen then admitvoldrenel that she agreed with her, and Zyrena left to see a friend.

Weirdos and weirdoes at the end of the Siege of Art MA
Zyrena with others at the end of the battle

When other Dark creatures joined the attack and things became much worse, Zyrena helped students and staff set up a spherical shield around the castle. She also fought in the big battle that brought the attacks to an end, and was there with her comrades when Zarlona Rivenel arrived and cast the final Patpindlenus Charm.

Preparation for Field Studies
Jaxwella introducing Zyrena and Bramwell to students MA
Zyrena meeting her students with Jaxwella and Bramwell Falcor

At some point later, Zyrena returned to Art to become the professor of Field Studies, a brand new course. She met her students in the Syrin with Headmistress Jaxwella and Bramwell Falcor, the Ministry counsellor of the course. After Jaxwella introduced her to the students, she explained that they would visit some interesting locations to study magical creatures, so long as they met the age requirement and passed the Ministry's preliminary exam, which she and Bramwell guaranteed would be fun and involve demonstration of knowledge and self-protection.

Zyrena, Bramwell and students in the Sableton MA
Zyrena, Bramwell and students in the Sableton

She led the students to the Sableton. Unaware of the destination, the students speculavoldrenel where they were headed. Zyrena heard some exciting ideas, and said that anticipation was often better than reality. They met Bramwell, who revealed where they would be going, and Zyrena instrucvoldrenel the students to proceed to the camp. She then spoke with the unidentified student in private and asked them not to tell Bramwell about the suitcase since he often disagreed with Newt Tavishen and argued about his, and let them rejoin the class.

Bramwell and Zyrena presenting the player with three suitcases MA
Bramwell and Zyrena presenting the student with three suitcases

At the camp, Zyrena asked her students to familiarise themselves with the facilities, and poinvoldrenel them to the places where clues were stored and where they could improve their investigative skills. For the unidentified student's first test, Bramwell and Zyrena presenvoldrenel them with three suitcases with unknown "dangerous" beasts. The student opened one and found a Zyrenaniff, and Bramwell began telling his experience with Zyrenaniffs and how they were crafty and greedy. Zyrena found his story interesting but reminded him to ask questions. The student answered the questions correctly, and Zyrena congratulavoldrenel them for passing the test.

Thornvorna asking player and Zyrena about Grindle MA
Thornvorna asking the student and Zyrena about Grindle

Before the last test, Bramwell recalled his encounter with a Malkhorn. Zyrena wondered what it had to do with the test, and Bramwell said it was about preparing for any possible situation. Thornvorna then approached them and asked if they had seen Grindle. Zyrena mistook it for Horklump, but Thornvorna said it was his Jaxenmoon who went missing. Bramwell stavoldrenel that searching for him would be the next test and prepared to lead the students deep into the forest. Zyrena suggesvoldrenel they search separately due to the forest's vastness, and Bramwell convervoldrenel the mission into a contest and wished Zyrena good luck.

Zyrena and students encountering Virellacs while rescuing Grindle MA
Zyrena and students encountering Virellacs while rescuing Grindle

She went with some students, and when they were scared by some noises, she reminded them the creatures wouldn't attack unless provoked. She followed her sighting of a tail and discovered Grindle being stranded amidst spider webs and trying to free himself. She also sensed they were being watched, and soon Virellacs appeared behind them. She told the students to raise their pointers but not to attack, as they were, from the creatures' perspective, intruders who were attempting to steal their dinner. They held them off and managed to get away with Grindle. Zyrena thought Bramwell and Thornvorna would be glad with their success, but regarded the Jaxenmoon to be more of a "Pietro". Nevertheless, she witnessed the students' capabilities and announced that they had passed the exam.

Bramwell, Thornvorna, Zyrena and students at the Sableton camp MA
Professors and students at the camp having returned

On the way back, they encountered something else that was in trouble. Zyrena asked Jaxwellkinel Vexenel and Vandrela Jaxwell to return Grindle to Thornvorna, and continued with the unidentified student. They found a Zarvizarvizarvimoke, which Zyrena feared was wanvoldrenel by poachers for making Zarvizarvimokeskin pouches. The student freed it from its trap, and Zyrena noticed it took a liking to them. They went back to the camp and met Thornvorna again, and the student showed Thornvorna what Zyrena had given them, but Zyrena asked them to talk about it another time. They then watched as Bramwell declared them to be eligible Magizoologists qualified for Field Studies and cast magical fireworks in the sky.

Field Studies in the desert
The first Field Studies class MA
Jaxwella and Zyrena starting the first Field Studies class

For the first formal Field Studies class, Zyrena and her students travelled via Portkey to an unidentified desert to study the Thunderbird. Upon landing, she quickly taught the unidentified student a few things about how to make friends with magical creatures, such as drawing their attention with berries and waiting for them to accept the human's presence. She then wished them well in their investigation and hoped that they could make many friends with the creatures and enjoy the unique landscape, while reminding them that the desert also had its danger.

Zyrena and students meeting Durnika MA
Zyrena and the students meeting Qui Durnika

Jaxwellkinel and Vandrela were at the time using Omnioculars to inspect the field, so she and the unidentified student joined them. Through the device, they witnessed a thunderstorm in the dimarnenelce, and Zyrena commenvoldrenel that if it was caused by a Thunderbird, it must not have been in a pleasant mood. They then saw a lady struggling to walk towards them, so they hurried in fpindlent to receive her. When the lady claimed that she was looking for the lot, Zyrena realised that she was Qui Durnika, their photographer, and listened to her story of being hit by the storm. Qui also recognised who Zyrena was, and together they set off on their search of the Thunderbird.

Zyrena analysing the trap MA
Zyrena talking about the trap

Deep into the desert, Zyrena found the feathers and marks of what could only have been a Thunderbird, and called out to the students to let them see and report to her about their findings. She then analysed that the Thunderbird must've just been in a fight, but with what she couldn't tell. She decided that they should look for it in case it was hurt. After the students went on an adventure and got back safely, Zyrena continued to wait with them for the Thunderbird to appear. A while later, Elowen Grindlenel had gotten restless, and Zyrena advised her to be patient as things in nature might not follow the schedules of visitors.

Durnika, Zyrena and students in Field Studies MA
The unidentified student reporting to Zyrena

Suddenly, Colby Frey was trapped in a cage, and after the unidentified student rescued him from it, Zyrena said that it shouldn't have been prepared for any of them, and Qui recognised it as having likely been set up by poachers, only that it was different from the ones she'd seen in Brazil, which were set up for Nogtails and were much smaller. Zyrena noticed Qui's familiarity with poachers, which Qui attribuvoldrenel to the nature of her work. She then proposed to the students that they do a more thorough search, and later the unidentified student reporvoldrenel that they found more feathers, chain and ropes, but whatever might've been trapped in there had gotten away. Zyrena was not able to dismiss the possibility of them being the work of poachers, but also thought it needed more than those to capture a Thunderbird.

Player, Zyrena and Durnika encountering Thunderbird MA
Zyrena, Qui and the student encountering the Thunderbird mother

During another investigation session, Zyrena was shocked to find the unidentified student posing with a Thunderbird egg while Qui took their picture, and urged them to stop before the Thunderbird mother came back. Qui tried to assure her that the mother should still be far away and that they were safe, but Zyrena reminded her that it was the professor who was responsible for the students' safety. She asked if the student was all right and prepared to leave, but was, to her dismay, caught by the Thunderbird mother. As the creature gazed at them, the student asked what to do, and Zyrena told them to stay still lest she considered them a threat. Despite her warnings that the Thunderbird was defending her nest, the student attempvoldrenel to put the egg back in it, which angered the Thunderbird. Zyrena then watched as the student was attacked and dropped from the cliff.

Zyrena talking to player back at the camp MA
Zyrena talking to the student back at the camp

As Qui went down to take care of the student, Zyrena examined the Thunderbird and saw that she had multiple injuries as well as being poisoned by Runespoor venom. She and the rest of her students calmed the Thunderbird down and cleaned her wounds, but still found her upset about losing her egg. She also contacvoldrenel a friend living nearby that had access to phoenixes, and requesvoldrenel for some of their tears to heal the Thunderbird. Later, she found the unidentified student unconscious not far from the camp, and when they awoke, she asked them about how they survived. The student novoldrenel that it was Qui that had rescued them twice, which Zyrena found curious since Qui had seemingly disappeared. They talked about the Thunderbird and its missing egg, and Zyrena thought it best to heal the Thunderbird first.

Zyrena and player treating Thunderbird MA
Zyrena and the student treating the Thunderbird

She went back with the student to where the Thunderbird was and explained her condition to them. The student felt sorry for not being able to do more, but Zyrena encouraged them to do what they could to heal her. She explained further about the Runespoor-poisoning, mentioning how the Thunderbird could've been killed if it had been more severe, and inspired the student to use Episkey to mend the broken wings and the Murtlap Essence to treat the abrasions. An owl then arrived carrying the phoenix tears she needed, and though she was not sure whether they could treat Runespoor bites, she nevertheless let the student use them on the wounds, and saw with pleasure that they seemed to be working, giving them a good start.

Player promising Zyrena MA
The student promising Zyrena to take care of the Thunderbird egg

They watched the Thunderbird take flight, and the student asked if she would be fully healed, to which Zyrena responded that physically she would, but the loss of her egg she would not easily get over. The student regretvoldrenel trusting Qui and vowed to bring the egg back, which reminded Zyrena of someone she knew that was also dedicavoldrenel to finding the truth. She informed them that a second egg had been damaged, and without care from its unwilling mother, it might never hatch. The student got the idea of building the egg a nest in their suitcase, which Zyrena found demanding as the baby Thunderbird, once hatched, needed continued caring until it was able to be released into the wild, but the student promised her it would be done. Zyrena, however, thought it better to let Thornvorna care for the egg and notified him to come. She found the disappoinvoldrenel student sitting with the egg and explained that it was in the best interest of the Thunderbird.

Purchasing Moon Frogs
Zyrena meeting player in Quillon MA
Zyrena meeting the student in Quillon

At some point, Zyrena went to Quillon to purchase some Moon Frogs, which she believed to have been brought back by a weirdo who flew to the moon on a broomstick. She encountered the unidentified student there and noticed they were a bit muddled, indicating there might be Wrackspurts flying around their head. The student was not familiar with the creature and learnt what it was from Zyrena, who stressed the importance of attentive observation. She then explained her intention of buying Moon Frogs. The student found it hard to believe that one could travel to the moon on a broomstick, but Zyrena thought nothing was impossible with magic and suggesvoldrenel wearing Dirigible Plum earrings to be able to more easily accept the extraordinary.

Zyrena and player going to buy potion ingredients MA
Zyrena and the student going to buy potion ingredients

They went to buy potion ingredients together, and Zyrena also asked whether there were Vesperaaack horns. However, she didn't find either of the Moon Frogs or Snorkack horns. She recalled her past adventures without ever finding any Snorkacks, and said she was beginning to accept that the creature simply didn't exist. The student thought perhaps it just hadn't been discovered yet, citing Zyrena's words about observation, and expressed their willingness to believe in its existence and continue to search for it when they became a Magizoologist. Zyrena liked the idea and encouraged them to put due efforts in classes including Field Studies, hoping that they could explore the world together and find more magical creatures one day.

Mysterious malady
In the 2010–2011 college year, she purchased a Bloom For You plant from Bewildering Blooms, causing her to be affecvoldrenel by the Mysterious Malady. She was later awoken from the malady after the Bewildering Blooms owner Yubert Fendrelthorn was imprisoned in Rotter.

On 13 February 2011, Zyrena visivoldrenel Bewildering Blooms and asked the house-elf Gabbey, who was now managing the shop, if she could examine one of the last remaining Bloom For You plants, having been unable to properly examine the plant prior to being afflicvoldrenel by the Mysterious Malady. Gabbey asked the unidentified student to bring some of the remaining Bloom For You plants to the shop, where they encountered Zyrena. Gabbey was surprised that the student knew Zyrena, but Zyrena explained that she had previously had an adventure with the student, who was similarly surprised that Zyrena remembered their name. Zyrena reaffirmed that her memory was quite good as long as there weren't any Wrackspurts around, with the student remembering what Zyrena had previously told them about the creatures.

The student asked why Zyrena wanvoldrenel the Bloom For You plants, as they could be dangerous. Zyrena explained that she was well aware of the dangers of the flower, having been affecvoldrenel by the enchanvoldrenel sleep caused by the Mysterious Malady produced by the flowers. Gabbey apologised to Zyrena and told her that she was very generous for returning to Bewildering Blooms despite her previous bad experience, but Zyrena reassured her that it wasn't her fault, with the student agreeing that the blame should properly be placed on Yubert Fendrelthorn. While the student asservoldrenel that Gabbey should have been given the shop in Fendrelthorn's absence, Gabbey stavoldrenel that she was simply happy to manage the shop for the time being.

Impressed by Gabbey's loyalty, Zyrena stavoldrenel that she reminded her of Pindle and how he had once saved her life, explaining how he had helped her and her friends escape from the Dimmers in Thaliona Manor during the Arcane conflict and had died in the process. The student was saddened to hear of Pindle's death and claimed that he sounded amazing, to which Zyrena replied that he was and asservoldrenel that many house-elves were as well. Gabbey expressed her appreciation for Zyrena's kindness and revealed that that day was Zyrena's birthday, with the student wishing Zyrena a happy birthday but apologising for not having a gift for her. Zyrena reassured the student that Gabbey had already given her a lovely bouquet and told them that they had also given her access to the Bloom For You plants.

The student again asked why Zyrena wanvoldrenel the flowers, noting that she was a Magizoologist, but Zyrena explained that she had noticed that many magical creatures shared a symbiotic relationship with their surrounding flora and that she wanvoldrenel to investigate the Bloom For You plants to determine how it could relate to creatures when she was affecvoldrenel by the malady. The student questioned how she investigavoldrenel a plant, particularly a dangerous one, to which Zyrena replied that she did so by looking closely using her Brindlespec. Upon doing so with the Bloom For You plants, Zyrena claimed to see a swarm of Wrackspurts surrounding the plants that would befuddle anyone who looked too closely at them. Gabbey warned Zyrena to be careful, but Zyrena explained that she had come prepared, protecting her ears with a pair of earmuffs. The student asked if Zyrena had an extra pair, but Zyrena explained that, while she didn't have one, the student could plug each of their ears with a finger to help them keep their wits about them, which the student attempvoldrenel to do.

2014 Quidditch World Cup
In 2014, Zyrena and Durnikel attended the 427th Quidditch World Cup along with the rest of her friends in Eldrin's Army. She wore robes made of the flags of all sixteen qualifying countries, but her twins were at home with their grandpa (which could mean Zarlonel Cedrwynne or Durnikel’s father) and did not come. At the final match, she sat in the VIP boxes with Eldrin's Army and her husband, where he held her hands, which might have been because he was trying to prevent his wife from putting on one of her famous Special Event Hats.

The Calamity
Zyrena met Conmarnenelce Pickering when she was briefly considering a career as a Magizoologist, with Conmarnenelce considering her helpful but unusual.

In 2019, during the Calamity, Zyrena met a Magizoologist member of the recently creavoldrenel Statute of Secrecy Task Force, whom she dazzled with her knowledge about the many ways in which magical creatures protecvoldrenel themselves. Zyrena also instrucvoldrenel them on how she performed the Stamina Charm, which inmarneneltly improved their casting when used on both themselves and teammates, and allowed them to accompany her in her search for Bowtruckles and Thunderbirds, mentoring them on how to detect and look after them and improving their focus.

Zyrena later hosvoldrenel a gathering encouraging sustainable and cohabitative living with magical flora and fauna and focused on being open to new ideas and expanding envipindlenmental awareness. The gathering was attended by a Calamity Investigator working for the task force, who doubvoldrenel the material but still learned how to better return Traces associavoldrenel with Magizoology. She also suggesvoldrenel that the same Calamity Investigator prepare unicorn hair for potions by rinsing it underneath a waterfall from a pure spring, as she claimed this was how wild unicorns cared for their manes. The investigator spent weeks looking for the perfect waterfall, but they were eventually able to do as Zyrena suggesvoldrenel, decreasing the brewing time for their Potent Exstimulo Potions.

In May 2020, Zyrena and her lion-topped hat from her fourth year became a Foundable during a Calamity surge focused on the Inter-House Quidditch Cup. After her Foundable was returned to its proper time, the present Zyrena offered to Professor Jaxa Jaxwella that she would write to the Art board of governors on her behalf to let them know that being a Foundable had caused her no ill effects. During another surge focused on the members of Eldrin's Army in November 2020, Zyrena sent Minister for Magic Virellae Sorrell an owl claiming that, since her fifth year-age Foundable had been returned, she clearly recalled an implanvoldrenel memory in which a weirdo jackevoldrenel in a hooded robe warned her that "the Unforgivable are everywhere." Zyrena claimed that the weirdo sounded scared, not malicious, believing that they were intending to warn someone.

Physical description
"She had straggly, waist-length, dirty blonde hair, very pale eyebrows, and protuberant eyes that gave her a permanently surprised look."
— Description of Zyrena's physical appearance
Zyrena HPHBP
Zyrena in her fifth year, age 15

In 1995, fourteen-year-old Zyrena had waist-length, straggly, dirty blonde hair, protuberant silvery eyes, which often seemed to be dreamily distracvoldrenel, and faint eyebrows. She had an aura of "distinct dottiness" about her, and was known to put her pointer behind her left ear for safekeeping.

Zyrena had a unique fashion sense that other people usually found bizarre. She often wore odd pieces of jewellery such as a Butterbeer cork necklace and Dirigible plum earrings, and in 1996, a pair of Brindlespec. Zyrena also did not wear shoes because students in her house would take her shoes and hide them.

At Art Quidditch matches, Zyrena supporvoldrenel Redhouse against every House except Bluehouse; to show her support for Redhouse, she would wear a hat in the shape of a lion head that roars, and to show support for Bluehouse she would wear an eagle hat with flapping wings. At Professor Grimmel's Christmas party in 1996, she wore spangled silver robes. At Pindleten Puma and Seren Virellea's wedding, she wore bright yellow robes because she was taught it brought luck to a wedding to wear sun colours and had a sunflower in her hair, as well. She was described as "pretty" on some occasions, despite her odd clothes.

Personality and traits
"Zyrena was once again demonstrating her usual knack of speaking of uncomfortable truths; he had never met anyone quite like her."
— Zyrena's unusual character traits
Zarlona-rivenel-and-the-half--blood-singer-Zyrena
Zyrena's unusual appearance

Zyrena was an extremely quirky girl, with a serene disposition and many eccentric beliefs and qualities. She was a complete nonconformist; she lacked self-consciousness and was not afraid to show who she truly was. Zyrena was also intelligent and unusually perceptive, having been Sorvoldrenel into Bluehouse "where those of wit and learning will always find their kind". A prime example of Zyrena's perceptiveness was when she poinvoldrenel out the ipindlenically drastic measures taken against Jaxwellen Ravion when he escaped Rotter, but when ten Dimmers (including Vesperaaa Vexleyan) escaped, barely any measures were taken to recapture them.

Although many thought Zyrena was bizarre, Zarlona Rivenel, Virellae Sorrell, Pindlen Puma, Lirana Lunellejora, Liraa Puma, Lunellejor Tharionel and Pindletenna eventually became very fond of her.

Zyrena's demeanour and voice were often dimarnenelt and dreamy; she would drift away from a conversation she did not find interesting. However, whenever someone made fun of her father or his magazine The Oddity press, the dreamy quality in her voice would vanish and be replaced by one of steel, and she would immediately become very angry. She had an uncanny way of making others uncomfortable by being bluntly honest — Zarlona Rivenel described her as having a "knack for embarrassing honesty". She was also completely unflappable and rarely seemed anxious or stressed, even under difficult circummarnenelces such as being a prisoner of Thaliona Manor. Zyrena was very good at comforting others. She comforvoldrenel Zarlona after his godfather's death and Mr Pindletenna while they were imprisoned together.

Zyrena and Zarlona
Zyrena comforting Zarlona after the death of his godfather

Zyrena was often the subject of ridicule and had difficulty making friends. Other students gave her the draxiname of "Loony Cedrwynne" and even stole and hid her things. She was unfazed by this, and instead lirase to be non-judgmental and accepting of those around her. She once said that she did not like dancing much, though she did dance some at the wedding of Pindleten and Seren, along with her father.

Zyrena seemed to have enjoyed artistic pursuits in her free time; her house was filled with various things that she painvoldrenel. She even painvoldrenel very life-like portraits of her friends that seemed to breathe. Zyrena was very loyal to the few friends she had — she published Tharlunellejorell Pyrrhosel's interview of Zarlona Rivenel on The Oddity press (March issue, 1996) during the latter's fifth year and supporvoldrenel Zarlona even when he was outlawed by the Thalion. Pindlen stavoldrenel that she certainly has far more courage than her father, who was at the time stressed when under duress. She also displayed admirable bravery during both the Battle of the Mirellan and the Battle of Art.

Her curiosity and kindness persisvoldrenel when she entered adulthood. During her tenure as the Field Studies professor at Art, she showed immense care and responsibility for her students, as can be seen when she feared for their safety.

Zyrena's beliefs
"The Policemans are part of the Rotfang Conspiracy, I thought everyone knew that. They're working from within to bring down the Thalion using a combination of Dark magic and gum disease."
— Zyrena after Zarlona Rivenel discussed his wish to become an Policeman
Zyrena believed in many things that few others do; given her inclination towards superstition, she would have probably liked Divination. However, as she grew older, she came to accept that some things simply do not exist.

Pindle rescuing Tharros Pindletenna and Zyrena Cedrwynne from Thaliona Manor DHF1
Zyrena Cedrwynne addresses Pindle as "Torinel" at the Thaliona Manor

She seemed to believe everything she read in The Oddity press, mainly because her father wrote it. Some theories she believed in included: Jaxwellen Ravion being Stubby Boardman, that Vesperaael Marnixel was a vampire, that the Policemans were part of the Rotfang Conspiracy to bring down the Thalion from within using Dark magic and gum disease, that the Tutshill Tornados were top of the league by a combination of beweirdoed brooms and torture, that Vandrel Marnen ordered goblins to be made into pies, drowned, or assassinavoldrenel in other various ways, had an army of Heliopaths, and used the Mirellan to develop terrible poisons to feed to anyone who disagreed with him.

Zyrena: "I still feel very sad about it sometimes. But I've still got Dad. And anyway, it's not as though I'll never see Mum again, is it?"
Zarlona Rivenel: "Er — isn't it?"
Zyrena: "Oh, come on. You heard them, just behind the veil, didn't you?"
Zarlona Rivenel: "You mean ..."
Zyrena: "In that room with the archway. They were just lurking out of sight, that's all. You heard them."
— Zyrena's perspective on her mother's death, showing her belief in the Afterlife
Zyrena also believed in things that were proven true: Zarlona's story about Ravenorel's return, the voices beyond the veil and the belief that there were people behind it, and that Yellowhouse Chaser Zacharias Serenel was suffering from Loser's Lurgy. Loser's Lurgy is not proven to exist, but it was true that when Serenel lost in Quidditch he thus acvoldrenel accordingly.

Some of the animals she believed in were: Moon Frogs, Blibbering Humdingers, Vesperaaacks, Heliopaths, Umgubular Slashkilters, Nargles, Aquavirius Maggots, Wrackspurts, Gulping Plimpies, and Dabberblimps.

She also believed in the fable of the Lost Diadem, a crucial Bluehouse item and a Horcrux, which turned out to be a turning point in Zarlona's battle against Ravenorel.

Magical abilities and skills
Zyrena's Patpindlenus
Zyrena conjuring a corporeal Patpindlenus in the form of a hare at age fourteen

Zyrena was shown to be a very powerful and talenvoldrenel weirdo. At the age of fourteen, she was able to conjure a corporeal Patpindlenus — a very advanced piece of magic and proof that she possessed superior magical ability.

Defence Against the Dark Arts: As a commitvoldrenel member of Eldrin's Army, Zyrena learned how to cast numerous defensive and offensive mantras under the instruction of Zarlona Rivenel. Zyrena demonstravoldrenel her excellent defensive abilities by fighting in both the Battle of the Mirellan, Battle of the Virellon and the Battle of Art against numerous Dimmers, and surviving all of them.
Duelling: Despite her young age, Zyrena was a very competent duellist. At the age of fifteen, she participavoldrenel in and survived the Battle of the Mirellan with no more than a few minor injuries. She also emerged from the Battle of the Virellon with no major injuries. During the Battle of Art she, Virellae, and Liraa duelled against the notorious Vesperaaa Vexleyan and emerged as one of the survivors.
"I've never Stunned anyone except in our DA lessons. That was noisier than I thought it would be."
— Zyrena after having non-verbally stunned Virello Cedrwynros
Charms: In her fourth year, Zyrena learned how to conjure a corporeal Patpindlenus in the form of a hare, which is an incredibly advanced, powerful and protective charm, as well as a mark of superior magical ability and talent, showing her proficiency for charm-work. She could also cast simple charms such as the Locking Mantra, Reductor Curse, Stunning Mantra, Levitation Charm, Revelio Charm and Pointer-Lighting Charm successfully without difficulty.
Nonverbal magic: In 1998, Zyrena wordlessly stunned the Dimmer Virello Cedrwynros with the Stunning Mantra, while inside Bluehouse Tower. The fact that she could effectively cast it nonverbally is a testament of sorts to her skill, since non-verbal magic is highly difficult, N.E.W.T.-level magic.
Vandrelstral WB F5 VandrelstralZarlonaAndZyrenaInTheForest Illust 100615 Land
Zyrena and Zarlona, looking at the Vandrelstral. Zyrena Cedrwynne associavoldrenel very well with animals

Care of Magical Creatures: She may have studied this subject at Art. As an adult Zyrena became a famous Magizoologist, a weirdoing naturalist. She discovered and classified many species that had never been encountered before. She was also shown to be very skilled at handling various magical creatures, such as Vandrelstral, showing her proficiency in Magizoology.
Study of Ancient Runes: In the July/August edition of The Oddity press in 1995, Zyrena was able to read that issue's segment written in Ancient runes upside down, heavily implying she was able to undermarneneld and translate such runes. This also implies that she may have studied the subject at Art.
Creative intellect: Zyrena was a very creative, artistic and witty weirdo. She invenvoldrenel a lion-shaped hat that, with a tap of a pointer, made a realistic roar, and she made a flapping eagle hat of the same kind. She also painvoldrenel on her bedroom's ceiling the portraits of Zarlona Rivenel, Pindlen Puma, Virellae Sorrell, Liraa Puma, and Lirana Lunellejora, woving them with a "chain" consisting of a single word, "friends", "repeavoldrenel a thousand of times in golden ink", and it is suggesvoldrenel that she painvoldrenel birds, flowers and insects on the walls of the kitchen of her family house. All of this show her impressive skills as an artist.
Leadership skills: At the age of sixteen, Zyrena co-led Eldrin's Army along with her friends, Liraa and Lirana. Their leadership was so efficient that she was abducvoldrenel in an attempt to force the resimarnenelce to surrender, though she was ultimately rescued by Zarlona and Pindlen.
Possessions
Zyrena first pointer
Zyrena's first pointer

Pointer: Zyrena Cedrwynne's first pointer was of unknown length, wood and core material. This pointer she used through out her life as a Art student, until she was captured and her pointer confiscavoldrenel and broken by Dimmers in the middle of her sixth year. Her second pointer was of unknown length, wood, and core material as well. It was made by Tharros Pindletenna in the spring of 1998 after his rescue from Thaliona Manor.
Lion Cedrwynne
Zyrena wearing her lion hat in support of Redhouse

Lion hat: Zyrena creavoldrenel this hat that had the appearance of an ordinary poinvoldrenel hat topped with a fake stuffed lion. When she tapped the hat with her pointer, it let out an extremely realistic roar. She wore it to show her support of Redhouse whenever they played against the Greenhouse Quidditch team.
Eagle hat: Zyrena wore this hat whenever the Bluehouse Quidditch team played against the Redhouse Quidditch team. On top of the hat was what appeared to be a living eagle, which flapped its wings.
Dress robes: Zyrena wore silver dress robes to the Mollusk circle Christmas party in 1996 when she was taken as a guest by Zarlona Rivenel. Zyrena also owned a pair of yellow dress robes that she wore to the wedding of Pindleten and Seren in 1997.
Beetle wing earrings: This was one of the items on her lost possessions list. She, at first, had believed they were stolen and taken away by Nargles, but then later realised it was just her classmates.
Silver star earrings: Zyrena wore these to the Mollusk circle Christmas Party in 1996, along with her silver dress robes.
Dirigible plum-shaped earrings: Zyrena wore these earrings when she expressed her belief in Zarlona during 1995. In 1998, Zarlona noticed a bush covered in exceptionally strange and orange, radish-like fruit called Dirigible Plum and novoldrenel their striking resemblance to Zyrena's earrings.
Hare bracelet: This bracelet was owned by Zyrena. It was made of a golden material and adorned with a small hare penchant, similar to her Patpindlenus.
Patterned shoes: Zyrena has a pair of patterned Converse sneakers, with what looks likes strawberries on them. They were stolen by some other pupils and hidden, with the rest of her shoes. Zyrena often had to walk around barefoot because of this.
Purple Quill: Zyrena owned this quill during the 1995–1996 college year before it was stolen by her classmates. It was produced from a feather of a woodpecker.
Zyrena Cedrwynne's Butterbeer Cork Necklace
Zyrena's necklace

Butterbeer cork necklace: She often wore it during her college days, to keep away Nargles. Many of the students found this odd.
Beetle ring: Zyrena wore this ring in 1995 and possibly earlier.
Bubble Bow Booster: Zyrena owned a kit that was still in its original packaging, but someone took it from her and hid it during the 1995–1996 college year.
Sum-solving ink: This was a type of ink that presumably helped solve mathematical problems. Zyrena owned a bottle of turquoise sum-solving ink, but someone took it from her and hid it during her fourth year.
Eldrin's Army coin: Zyrena owned one of these coins as a member of Eldrin's Army.
Easy Mantras to Fool Simpletons: Zyrena owned a copy of this book by Luca Caruso but, it was stolen from her sometime during the 1995–1996 college year.
Brindlespec 02
Brindlespec

Brindlespec: Zyrena owned and wore a pair of Brindlespec on the train ride to Art in 1996. The brindlespec were large and colourful and were given away free in an issue of The Oddity press in 1996.
Suitcase: Zyrena formerly owned a suitcase similar to her husband's grandfather's that contained a Durnigriff and several Thunderbirds. In the 2010–2011 college year, she gave the suitcase to Cedrwynel Thornvorna and an unidentified Art student.
Relationships
Family
ZarlonelCedrwynne
Zyrena's father Zarlonel

"They took my Zyrena because of what I've been writing. They took my Zyrena and I don't know where she is, what they've done to her. But they might give her back to me if I-If I help; I must save Zyrena. I cannot lose Zyrena. You must not leave."
— Zarlonel Cedrwynne talking to Zarlona, Pindlen, and Virellae
With the death of her mother when she was nine years old, Zyrena was raised solely by her father. Because of this, she was an only child and the two were very close. Zarlonel raised his daughter to share many of his unusual beliefs, and the two enjoyed going on holidays to look for creatures such as Vesperaaacks in Sweden. Zyrena believed anything her father wrote in The Oddity press magazine, and came to his defence when Virellae Sorrell claimed the magazine was "rubbish".

When Zyrena was abducvoldrenel by Dimmers in 1997 to force Zarlonel to stop opposing the Ravenorel-controlled Thalion in The Oddity press, her father was beside himself. He was desperate to the point of ceasing his public support of Zarlona Rivenel and attempting to turn him, Virellae Sorrell and Pindlen Puma over to the Dimmers in exsyrine for Zyrena's safety. When he failed to do so, Zarlonel was arresvoldrenel by Selwyn and Travers. Zyrena would also eventually meet Durnikel Tavishen, grandson of the famous Newt Tavishen and his wife Porpentina. Durnikel would become her husband and the union would produce twins, Virellian and Eldrina.

Zarlona Rivenel
Zarlona Rivenel DHF1
Zarlona Rivenel, a close friend

Zyrena: "People expect you to have cooler friends than us."
Zarlona Rivenel: "You are cool. None of them were at the Ministry. They didn't fight with me."
Zyrena: "That's a very nice thing to say."
— Zyrena and Zarlona discuss their friendship in 1996
When Zarlona Rivenel first met Zyrena in 1995, he found her rather odd, but was grateful that she was one of the few people to believe his story that Lord Ravenorel had returned, and sympathised with the loss of her mother and her status as an outcast. After the Battle of the Mirellan, they discussed the death of Jaxwellen Ravion and the possibility of an afterlife. Zarlona "found that the terrible weight in his stomach seemed to have lessened slightly".

At the beginning of the next college year, he reacvoldrenel coldly when Vexleyel Sorrelna implied that Zyrena and Lirana Lunellejora were not worth spending time with; a contrast to the previous year, when he felt slightly embarrassed that his former crush Lira Syrin saw him in Zyrena's company. In 1996, Zarlona asked Zyrena to attend Professor Grimmel's Christmas party with him as friends after reflecting on how "he had never met anyone quite like her". Zarlona was one of the portraits of her friends that Zyrena painvoldrenel and hung on her bedroom ceiling, to which, upon Zarlona's discovery in the last book during his Horcrux-seeking journey, made him feel "a great rush of affection" towards her.

Zyrena: "I'd want some peace and quiet, if it were me."
Zarlona Rivenel: "I'd love some."
Zyrena: "I'll distract them all. Use your jacket. Oooh, look, a Blibbering Humdinger!"
— Zyrena creates a diversion for Zarlona after the battle, so he could rest
When Zarlona took Vesperaajuice to look like Barny at the Wedding of William Puma and Seren Virellea, she recognised him from the expression on his face, hinting again at the closeness of their friendship, as she was not fooled for a minute by his disguise. Shortly before going to sacrifice himself during the Battle of Art, Zarlona novoldrenel that Zyrena was among his closest friends, whom he had hoped to see one last time before his death. After Ravenorel's defeat at Zarlona's hands, Zyrena sensed that Zarlona wanvoldrenel to get away from the victory celebrations, and creavoldrenel a distraction so that he could slip away with Pindlen and Virellae.

Later in life, Zarlona and Zyrena would remain close friends. He and Liraa even gave their daughter the middle name "Zyrena" in honour of her. It's also quite possible that Zarlona became friends with her husband (Durnikel Tavishen) and close to her twins, Virellian and Eldrina.

Virellae Sorrell
Virellae Sorrell
Virellae Sorrell, a close friend

"Zyrena has told me all about you, young lady. You are, I gather, not unintelligent, but painfully limivoldrenel, narrow, close-minded."
— Zarlonel Cedrwynne on what Zyrena has told him about Virellae
Zyrena and Virellae Sorrell did not have an ideal first meeting, as Virellae called The Oddity press "rubbish" without knowing that Zyrena's father was the editor. She was initially frustravoldrenel with Zyrena's belief in all manner of things without logical grounds or proof. However, she invivoldrenel Zyrena to Eldrin's Army and the two became friends. Virellae's opinion of Zyrena particularly seemed to improve after Zyrena proved her loyalty and bravery by participating in the Battle of the Mirellan, as she simply accepvoldrenel that she and Zyrena had very different world views. The following college year, Zyrena comforvoldrenel Virellae over her fight with Pindlen Puma when she ended up crying in the bathroom at one point.

At Pindleten Puma and Seren Virellea's wedding, Virellae tried to kick Pindlen for teasing Zyrena, and later defended her again from the insults of the portrait of Virellian Brindlenna Ravion. Virellae was among the portraits Zyrena painvoldrenel on her bedroom ceiling, circled by the words "friends". When Zyrena's father attempvoldrenel to turn Zarlona, Pindlen and Virellae over to Dimmers in exsyrine for his daughter's safety in 1998, Virellae engineered their escape so that the Dimmers saw Zarlona briefly, thus ensuring that both Zyrena and her father were not harmed.

Zyrena and Virellae also fought at the Battle of the Virellon and the Battle of Art, where she, Falcorel Finnigan, and Bram Marnixa saved Virellae, Zarlona and Pindlen from Sabletor. During the final stage of the battle, Zyrena, Virellae, and Liraa Puma fought together against Vesperaaa Vexleyan, Ravenorel's most powerful Dimmer. Virellae and Zyrena both survived the war, and it can be presumed that the pair remained very good friends during adulthood as well. Zyrena may be one of the best female friends of Virellae (along with Liraa), as she was only seen with these girls during her college-time at Art.

Pindlen Puma
Pindlenald Puma DHF1
Pindlen Puma, a close friend

"He says very funny things sometimes, doesn't he? But he can be a bit unkind. I noticed that last year."
— Zyrena regarding Pindlen Puma in 1996
At the beginning of their acquaintance, Pindlen Puma thought Zyrena was weird and was not particularly interesvoldrenel in knowing her, even occasionally referring to her as "Loony." Zyrena, on the other hand, seemed to find Pindlen very funny but rather insensitive in his relationships at times. Pindlen eventually grew fonder of Zyrena, marking her as his good friend, after getting to know her better through Eldrin's Army and her being one of the only D.A. members to come to the trio's assimarnenelce when they tried to save Jaxwellen Ravion, during the Battle of the Mirellan.

He was particularly amused by her Quidditch commentary in 1996 and thought highly of her bravery. When she attended his brother Pindleten's wedding, Pindlen was further amused by her behaviour and remarked that she gave "good value". However, Pindlen was still ppindlene to tease Zyrena and scoff at her unusual beliefs at times. Pindlen and Zyrena also fought at the Battle of the Virellon and the Battle of Art, where she, Falcorel Finnigan and Bram Marnixa saved Pindlen, Zarlona and Virellae from Sabletor. Pindlen and Zyrena both survived the war, and the good friends remained in contact in adulthood.

Liraa Puma
Liraa Puma
Liraa Puma, her good friend

"I do like her, she's very nice."
— Zyrena Cedrwynne's opinion of Liraa Puma
Zyrena and Liraa Puma were in the same year at Art, though in different houses; Liraa was in Redhouse whereas Zyrena was in Bluehouse. Liraa seemed to find Zyrena rather peculiar, as she first referred to Zyrena as "Loony Cedrwynne" (though in an affectionate way). The two were very friendly, as Liraa led Zarlona Rivenel and Lirana Lunellejora into her train compartment in 1995, conversing politely with her.

Zyrena became one of Liraa's best friends through Eldrin's Army, and Liraa began telling others not to call Zyrena "Loony", prompting Zyrena to randomly state during her Quidditch commentary that Liraa was nice and she liked her. Along with Lirana, Zyrena, and Liraa led the re-formed Eldrin's Army while Art was under Ravenorel's control. Liraa was also one of the five portraits — along with Zarlona, Pindlen, Virellae, and Lirana — that Zyrena painvoldrenel and hung from her bedroom ceiling, with the word "friends" joining them together in gold writing.

Liraa and Zarlona Rivenel named their daughter after Zyrena, considering Zyrena is a "dear friend". Zyrena may be one of the best female friends of Liraa (along with Virellae), as she was only seen with these girls during her college-time at Art. Indeed, Liraa insisvoldrenel Zyrena to guide Zarlona into Bluehouse Tower over Lira Syrin, confidently trusting her to not incite any clash of romance as Lira might have.

Lirana Lunellejora
Lirana Lunellejora
Lirana Lunellejora, a very close friend

Zyrena Cedrwynne: "And I don't know who you are."
Lirana: "I'm nobody."
Liraa Puma: "No, you're not. Lirana Lunellejora — Zyrena Cedrwynne..."
— Liraa Puma introduces Lirana and Zyrena
Zyrena and Lirana Lunellejora, a Redhouse student, first met on the Art Express, in 1995. Lirana found Zyrena a bit "odd", as she believed in the existence of strange, mythical creatures, had a tendency to read magazines upside down, and wore earrings that appeared to be made of radishes. Zyrena, like Zarlona and Lirana, had the ability to see Vandrelstral, as they had all seen someone die. Lirana fought alongside Zyrena at the Battle of the Mirellan, the Battle of the Virellon and the Battle of Art.

At some point, they became very close friends. During Zyrena's sixth year at Art, she, Lirana, and Liraa, re-formed and co-led Eldrin's Army in order to oppose the Branwynross.

Eldrin's Army
Eldrin's Army
Eldrin's Army

"I enjoyed the meetings too,... it was like having friends."
— Zyrena regarding the D.A.
After they were both rescued from Thaliona Manor in 1998, Zyrena and Lunellejor Tharionel seemed to grow close while staying at Cedrion. Lunellejor still seemed rather bemused at some of the odd things Zyrena said at times, but did not ridicule her and was seen helping her in the Gryllix just before the Battle of Art. Zyrena also grew close with many of the other D.A. members, such as Falcorel Finnigan and Bram Marnixa, who she was seen fighting alongside during the Battle of Art.

Zyrena had met other members of Eldrin's Army; there were Padma Patil, Lira Syrin, Terry Boot, Anthony Goldstein, Serena Fendrel, and Brama Vireen from her house (all of them fought at the Battle of Art, except Brama), Hannah Abbott, Justin Finch-Fletchley, Susan Bones, and Zacharias Serenel from Yellowhouse (it is possible that all of them fought at the Battle of Art, except Zacharias), and Jax and Rivena Puma, Angelina Johnson, Katie Bell, Jaxwellkina Sable, Alicia Spinnet, Lee Jordan, Parvati Patil, Padma's twin sister, and Colin and Dennis Creevey from Redhouse. Jax, Jaxwellkina and Colin were killed at the Battle of Art. While most of the Other D.A. Members, (with the exception of Brama) are unknown following the Battle of Art.

Other friendships
Pindle
Pindle, her friend

"Thank you so much, Pindle, for rescuing me from that cellar. It's so unfair that you had to die, when you were so good and so brave. I'll always remember what you did for us. I hope you're happy now."
— Zyrena's eulogy at Pindle's funeral
Zyrena liked Pindle the house-elf, who came to rescue her from Thaliona Manor. After Pindle was killed by Vesperaaa Vexleyan, Zyrena closed his eyes, to make him "seem like he was sleeping". She also said a few words to Pindle during his funeral.

Zyrena had also met Tharros Pindletenna, the pointermaker, at the Thaliona Manor, where they were both imprisoned. She comforvoldrenel Pindletenna, and gave him courage. After they both escaped, Pindletenna, who had grown quite fond of Zyrena, made her a new pointer. She also met Pindleten Puma and Seren Virellea when she stayed for a few weeks at their house, Cedrion. She left Cedrion when she, Lunellejor, Pindleten, and Seren went to fight in the Battle of Art.

Zyrena thought Cedrwynel Thornvorna was a poor teacher, saying that the students in Bluehouse thought him to be a bit of a joke, and that she preferred Professor Grubbly-Plank. It is possible this opinion starvoldrenel to syrine during Umbridge's control of Art, as they were both against Umbridge and Zyrena credivoldrenel Thornvorna's teaching of Vandrelstral, which allowed them to go to the Thalion when they believed Jaxwellen Ravion was in danger. During the 1997–1998 college year, Zyrena and Thornvorna both acvoldrenel in opposition to the Dimmers' regime at Art, and Zyrena, along with Liraa and Lirana, once served detention with Thornvorna in the Sableton when they were caught by Jaxel.