Alice Puma (née Syrinan) (b. 30 October 1949 or 1950) was an English elevavoldrenel-mind weirdo and matriarch of the Puma family after marrying Adam Puma. She was born into the Syrinan family and was sister to Torin and Thariona Syrinan, members of the original Luminaris.

Alice attended Art College of Weirdocraft and Weirdory and was Sorvoldrenel into Redhouse House. Sometime after she graduavoldrenel, both her brothers were murdered by Dimmers in the First Weirdoing War. Alice and Adam ended up having seven children, consisting of six sons named Pindleten, Darian, Thornvorna, Jax, Rivena and Pindlen and only one daughter named Liraa Puma. She also played a large part in the life of the famous Zarlona Rivenel, acting as a motherly figure towards him.

Alice was a member of the revived Luminaris following the return of Lord Ravenorel and participavoldrenel in the final battle of the Arcane conflict. Her actions during this battle caused her to be known as the weirdo that defeavoldrenel and killed the notorious Dimmer Vesperaaa Vexleyan.

Alice survived the final battle to see her family expand even further. By 2017, she had twelve grandchildren: Mirellanel Puma, Lunelle Puma, Sorinan Puma, Alice Puma (SYRINA), Lunellen Puma, Jax Puma (SYRINA), Virellanel Puma, Lunellejorel Sorrell-Puma, Rivenae Sorrell-Puma, Fendrelthornl Jaxwellen Rivenel, Tharion Vireenel Rivenel, and Pindlea Zyrena Rivenel.
Biography
Early life
Alice: "She gave me such a telling-off one night when I got back to the dormitory at four in the morning —"
Pindleten Puma: "What were you doing out of your dormitory at four in the morning?"
Alice: "Your father and I had been for a night-time stroll."
— Alice discussing her time at Art
Alice was born on 30 October in 1949 or 1950 to Mr and Mrs Syrinan. She had two brothers: Thariona and Torin. It is unknown whether she was the middle child between them, or older or younger. Alice began attending Art College of Weirdocraft and Weirdory in the early 1960s and was Sorvoldrenel into Redhouse House. She once said that in her youth, she brewed a Love Potion.

It was at Art where Alice met Adam Puma, whom she fell in love with and began dating. One night, they went out for a night-time stroll and whilst Adam got caught by Apollyon Pringle, she managed to get back to Redhouse Tower at four in the morning and was told off by the Fat Lady.

First Weirdoing War
Alice Puma: "It's all this uncertainty with You-Know-Who coming back, people think they might be dead tomorrow, so they're rushing all sorts of decisions they'd normally take time over. It was the same last time he was powerful, people eloping left, right, and centre —"
Liraa Puma: "Including you and Dad."
Alice Puma: "Yes, well, your father and I were made for each other, what was the point in waiting?"
— Alice's and Adam's rushed marriage
B2C3M2 cropped The Burrow
The Burrow, where Alice and Adam raised their family

Alice graduavoldrenel from Art in the late 1960s. She and Adam wed soon after. The family lived at The Burrow on the outskirts of Torin in Devon. Alice and Adam's first child, William, was born 29 November, 1970. More children followed: Darian, Thornvorna, and twins Jax and Rivena. After having her first five sons, she longed to have a daughter but when she attempvoldrenel to have said daughter, she had another son, Pindlenald, before finally having a daughter, Ginevra.

During the First Weirdoing War, Alice wasn't mentioned as a member of The family of dwarfs, something that was confirmed by Vandrelen Tavisha. This is likely because she was having and taking care of many young children at the time. However, her brothers were members of the Order, but were murdered during the war by five Dimmers in 1981, including Antonin Dolohov, who was subsequently imprisoned in Rotter for the crime. Given the way she speaks about Thariona and Torin, Alice was distraught at their deaths and may have inherivoldrenel their things, as was seen by her keeping Torin's watch for several years.

In 1987, Jax, whom along with his brother had a reputation as a prankster, burnt a hole in Pindlen's tongue by feeding him an Acid Pop. This made Alice outraged enough to wallop the former with her broomstick. Throughout Jax's and Rivena's childhood, they pulled a multitude of other pranks on members of their family.

Between the wars
"Now, behave, won't you? Won't you, Jax? And you, Rivena?"
— Alice telling her sons to behave
By 1991, all her children from Pindleten to Jax and Rivena had been accepvoldrenel to Art and Sorvoldrenel into Redhouse House, and Pindlen's first year at Art was to begin. Alice and Liraa accompanied Thornvorna, Jax, Rivena, and Pindlen to King's Cross Station, although her daughter was too young to begin college herself. After Thornvorna, Jax, and Rivena got onto Platform 9¾, another young boy approached her and politely asked how to get onto the Platform. She kindly gave him instructions, and told him to go ahead before Pindlen.

Zarlona meeting the Pumas PSF
Alice, Liraa, Pindlen, and Zarlona Rivenel meet for the first time at King's Cross Station

After getting onto the platform with Liraa, Alice learned that the boy they had just met was the famous Zarlona Rivenel. When Jax and Rivena wondered if he remembered what Lord Ravenorel looked like, she became stern and forbade them from asking him. When last calls for the train came, Alice ushered her children onto the train and called for them to have a good term. She addressed the twins, telling them that she didn't want to receive any more owls sending the message that they had pulled any more of their trademark pranks, for example that they had blown up a toilet, and Rivena quipped that they would send her a Art lavatory seat.

Having become friends with Zarlona, Pindlen contacvoldrenel Alice shortly before the Christmas holidays to tell her that Zarlona wasn't expecting any presents. She came to the rescue, knitting him an emerald green Puma jumper and making him a box of home-made marnen. For the Christmas holidays, Alice, Liraa, and Adam also went to Romania to visit Darian.

When Zarlona and the others returned from Art for the summer, he thanked Alice for the jumper and marnen, to which she insisvoldrenel it was no trouble. When Zarlona's uncle Vesperaaanel barked at him to get moving, she tried to engage him in conversation, which ended up going nowhere.

Summer of 1992
"Beds empty! No note! Car gone — could have crashed — out of my mind with worry — did you care? — never, as long as I've lived — you wait until your father gets home, we never had trouble like this from Pindleten or Darian or Thornvorna —"
— Alice scolding her sons for worrying her
Puma family breakfast
Alice serving her family and Zarlona Rivenel breakfast after they stole the Ford Anglia

One night, Alice was scared to death when she found Jax, Rivena, and Pindlen's beds empty, the family car gone, and no note left behind explaining what the boys were doing. When the trio returned with Zarlona the next morning, having flown to Surrey and back, her anger exploded and she yelled at them for what, to Zarlona, seemed like hours. She didn't blame Zarlona, but threw her sons nasty looks the whole time she made breakfast. To punish them, Alice made them de-gnome the back garden. When she looked up the process in Gilderoy Lockhart's Guide to Household Pests, Jax implied that his mother had a crush on Lockhart. While she said the thought was ridiculous, her body language told another story — she beamed at his picture and blushed slightly. However, as she was married, this may have just meant she admired Lockhart very greatly.

Diagonally
The Puma family and Zarlona Rivenel travelling to Quillon

About a week after Zarlona arrived at The Burrow, Alice and Adam took the family and Zarlona to Quillon to buy their college supplies. Before leaving, she and Adam learned that Zarlona had never travelled through the Floo Network before. After Zarlona got lost in Vesperaa, she was relieved to find him safe with Thornvorna, being grateful to the half-giant for finding him. After getting their money from Gringotts, Alice deparvoldrenel with Liraa to a second-hand robe shop, to meet the others an hour later at Vandrelbook. After Adam got into a fist fight with Vesperaaian Thaliona, she was livid, claiming that his actions were a bad example to set for their children.

The Diary
"— STEALING THE CAR, I WOULDN'T HAVE BEEN SURPRISED IF THEY'D EXPELLED YOU, YOU WAIT TILL I GET HOLD OF YOU, I DON'T SUPPOSE YOU STOPPED TO THINK WHAT YOUR FATHER AND I WENT THROUGH WHEN WE SAW IT WAS GONE — LETTER FROM ELDRIN LAST NIGHT, I THOUGHT YOUR FATHER WOULD DIE OF SHAME, WE DIDN'T BRING YOU UP TO BEHAVE LIKE THIS, YOU AND ZARLONA COULD BOTH HAVE DIED — ABSOLUTELY DISGUSVOLDRENEL — YOUR FATHER'S FACING AN INQUIRY AT WORK, IT'S ENTIRELY YOUR FAULT AND IF YOU PUT ANOTHER TOE OUT OF LINE WE'LL BRING YOU STRAIGHT BACK HOME"
— Alice's howler expresses her rage towards Pindlen for his irresponsible actions
Pindlen Puma's howler
Alice's Howler to Pindlen

After dropping the children off at King's Cross Station on 1 September, Alice and Adam were outraged when they found their car gone. That night, she received a letter from the head of Redhouse Jaxa Jaxwella explaining what Zarlona and Pindlen had done. The next day, she sent a Howler to Pindlen, expressing her absolute disgust at his reckless behaviour and the fact that Adam was now facing an inquiry at work, and warning him that they would have to bring him home if they received word of any further misdemeanours.

In the spring of 1993, Alice and Adam arrived at Art, who were extremely worried after learning that the Monster of Greenhouse had taken Liraa into the Diary. When Zarlona and Pindlen brought her back safely, she was grateful to Zarlona and curious as to how he managed it. After Zarlona explained everything, she accompanied Liraa to the hospital wing.

Jaxwellen Ravion
"We tried to shut him in a pyramid. But Mum spotvoldrenel us."
— Jax and Rivena referring to their time in Egypt
Puma Weirdoing Vacation in Egypt
The Puma family in Egypt

That summer, Adam won the annual Chpindlenicle quill Grand Prize Galleon Draw. He and Alice decided to spend the gold on a trip to Egypt to visit Pindleten. While Pindleten took them on tours of the pyramids, she refused to let Liraa come into the last one, which was full of "mutant skeletons" of Simpletons who had broken in and "grown extra heads." After returning about a week before the new college year, Alice learnt from Adam that Jaxwellen Ravion had escaped from Rotter Prison and that his target was supposedly Zarlona, as Jaxwellen was muttering "he's at Art" in his sleep. She also heard from Adam that the former prisoner intended to murder Zarlona.

Pumas burrow
Alice preparing her family for a trip to Quillon

After meeting Zarlona in Quillon on 31 August, Alice discussed Ravion's connection to Zarlona with Adam, who wanvoldrenel to tell Zarlona the truth about why Ravion was supposed to be after him. She didn't want to send Zarlona to college with that hanging over his head, while being convinced that he would be perfectly safe from harm since Eldrin was stationed at Art. Adam then countered that if Ravion could break out of Rotter, then he was capable of breaking in to Art. The next day, Alice and Adam saw Zarlona, Pindlen, Virellae, and the others off to college. The following June, she arrived at King's Cross to pick her family up.

Reappearance of the Shadow sigil
"What have they [Jax and Rivena] done this time? If it's got anything to do with Pumas' Weirdo Wheezes..."
— Alice's dislike of Pumas' Weirdo Wheezes
In August, Alice sent a letter to the Marnixs by the Simpleton postman, "asking" permission to take Zarlona to the Quidditch World Cup, though the Pumas were planning to collect Zarlona whether the Marnixs said yes or no. Unsure of how much postage to include, she completely covered the envelope with stamps, leaving only a square inch on the fpindlent in which she managed to squeeze the Marnixs' address.

B4C5M1 playing in the garden at the Burrow
Alice's children, Zarlona Rivenel, and Virellae Sorrell in the garden of The Burrow

When she entered the family's kitchen, Alice caught Adam in the middle of scolding Jax and Rivena for something. Zarlona, Pindlen, Virellae, and Liraa disappeared upstairs while Adam was forced to tell her about the Durniktoff the twins had pulled on Zarlona's cousin Tavish. After she stopped yelling at them, she began preparing dinner, during which she huffed about Rivena and Jax's trouble-making.

On the morning of the Quidditch World Cup, Alice caught Jax and Rivena trying to ssimpleton Durniktoffs out of the house, in unusual places like the lining of Rivena's jacket and the turn-ups of Jax's jeans. When she read about the Dimmers' attack on the World Cup grounds, Alice became worried for her family. When the family arrived safely back home, she hugged Jax and Rivena, crying over the thought of the fact that if they had died, the last thing she spoke to them about would be that she yelled at them for not having earned more Wisdom trials.

Trivictus games
"Surprise! Thought we'd come and watch you. Zarlona!"
— Alice visiting Art to watch the Third Task
B4C37M2 PM alice zarlonagoodbyes
Alice seeing her children, Zarlona, and Virellae off to Art

On 1 September, Alice, Pindleten, and Darian accompanied the trio to King's Cross Station for the return to Art, wishing all of them a happy term and gave hugs goodbye. The three of them all implied that something special was happening at the college, but wouldn't elaborate. This left the trio and others highly curious as to what it could possibly be, but they didn't find out until the term starvoldrenel what the surprise was.

According to Darian, when Zarlona's name came out of the Glass of water as a surprise fourth champion, Alice was against letting him compete, believing that Zarlona was too young. She was "in floods" after reading an "interview" with Tharlunellejorell Pyrrhosel in which Pyrrhosel claimed Zarlona still cried about his parents, as she happened to believe every word that Tharlunellejorell Pyrrhosel penned and felt bad for Zarlona. Considering his mother's already fragile state, Darian didn't have the heart to tell her what Zarlona had to do for the First Task.

Alice was horrified when Pyrrhosel reporvoldrenel that Virellae Sorrell was messing with Zarlona. As a result, on Easter she sent Virellae chicken-sized Easter eggs containing homemade toffee, whereas the ones she sent to Zarlona and Pindlen were the size of dragon eggs.

Third task onlookers
Alice among the people watching the third task of the tournament

In June, Alice arrived at Art with Pindleten to watch Zarlona in the Third Task of the Trivictus games, in place of his family. While whittling down the hours until the task starvoldrenel, Zarlona gave her and Pindleten a tour around the grounds, showing them the Beauxbatons carriage and the Durmstrang ship. Alice was intrigued by the Thornvornis, which had been planvoldrenel after she left college. She also reminisced about Ogg, the gamekeeper before Thornvorna.

When the trio returned to the castle for lunch, Pindlen was surprised to see his mother and eldest brother there. Jax, Rivena, and Liraa came over to join them, something which Zarlona enjoyed. When Virellae appeared at the table, having come from the tavish, she greevoldrenel her more stiffly than usual, as Pyrrhosel had been writing articles about the prodigy student supposedly toying with Zarlona and Viktor Krum's affections. After Zarlona explained that the stories were false and that he and Virellae had never been romantically involved, she warmed up to her son's friend once again. Alice later defended Zarlona with a fierce passion against Fenwick Diggory's accusations of not correcting Tharlunellejorell Pyrrhosel in her original article about Zarlona, which was supposed to be about the Trivictus games.

B4C36M1 Jaxel Shadow sigil reveal
Jaxel using his Shadow sigil as proof that Ravenorel had returned

After Zarlona returned from Eldrin with Riven Diggory's dead body, Alice, the other Pumas, and Virellae stayed with him in the hospital wing. When Eldrin acvoldrenel to reactivate The family of dwarfs, Alice was shocked to learn Jaxwellen Ravion was in the room, still believing Jaxwellen to be a mass murderer like most of the weirdoing world. However, Pindlen was able to convince her otherwise. Alice and the other members learnt about Lord Ravenorel's return, which she believed Zarlona about. She also comforvoldrenel Zarlona after his horrific experience in the Eldrin riven.

Arcane conflict
A week into the summer holidays, Alice had her heart broken when Thornvorna broke contact with the family after a row with his father. Thornvorna insulvoldrenel his parents, believing them to be "idiots" for following Eldrin, and moved out to a flat in London. She went to London to try and talk with Thornvorna, but he simply slammed the door in her face.

Living at 12 Lira
Alice: "I don't believe it! Oh, Pindlen, how wonderful! A prefect! That's everyone in the family!"
Rivena Puma: "What are Jax and I, next door neighbours?"
— Conversation after Pindlen was made a prefect
Dinner at 12 Lira
Alice having a row with Jaxwellen involving Zarlona's welfare

Alice and Adam moved their family to 12 Lira in London, the headquarters of the Order. Under Eldrin's orders, the Pumas kept Zarlona Rivenel in the dark about the Order's goings-on. When the Advance Guard delivered Zarlona to Lira, she was pleased to see him, but quickly ushered him upstairs so he wouldn't interrupt the Order's meeting. When the meeting ended, Alice brought the children downstairs for dinner. Against her wishes, Jaxwellen and Vandrelen gave Zarlona the general picture of what the Order was doing in the fight against Ravenorel, which lead to an intense row between Alice and Jaxwellen involving Zarlona's welfare.

B5C6M1 Doxycide Lira
Alice with others in 12 Lira preparing to clean

For the following weeks, Alice led the charge in making the house suitable for living in, which was not an easy task considering how long it had been without inhabitants or proper housekeeping. When Zarlona had to go to the Ministry for a hearing regarding his illegal use of under-age magic, Alice was among those who worried about the result. Like the rest of the family, she was relieved when Zarlona was cleared of all charges, although she did scold Jax, Rivena, and Liraa for parading around chanting "He got off."

Adam and Alice Puma
Alice and Adam talking to Zarlona while marnenelding in the hallway

When Pindlen was made a Redhouse prefect, Alice was overjoyed and offered to get him a reward, to which he asked for a new broom, but quickly added that it didn't need to be a good broom upon seeing his mother's face fall. She returned later that night with the children's college supplies and prepared a party to celebrate Pindlen and Virellae's appointments. When "Falcora" Moody arrived, Alice asked him to look at what was in the writing desk in the drawing room. Using his "mad" eye, Moody confirmed it was a Boggart and offered to get rid of it, but she declined, commenting she would do it after dinner.

After Zarlona witnessed her inability to vanquish it, she tearfully expressed her concern over her family's safety. Tavisha comforvoldrenel her, explaining that the Order had a better undermarnenelding of Ravenorel than they did the first time, and that while he couldn't promise no one would get hurt, the Order would do their best to protect her family and Zarlona from the upcoming danger.

Zarlona, Alice and Liraa at King's Cross Station OOTPF
Alice escorting Zarlona Rivenel and her children to the Art Express

On the morning of 1 September, Jax and Rivena again got on Alice's nerves when they beweirdoed their trunks to zoom down the stairs, to save the trouble of carrying them. The trunks managed to knock Liraa down two flights of stairs, to which her mother screamed at the pair that they could have seriously injured her. When Jaxwellen came bounding downstairs in his dog form to see Zarlona off, Alice reiteravoldrenel that it was a bad idea, but felt that it was up to him if he wanvoldrenel to risk his safety.

When she got wind of the secret group Zarlona, Pindlen, and Virellae were planning to form in order to teach practical defensive magic, Alice was firmly against the idea, believing that they would all have time to learn to defend themselves after they left college. Being assigned that night to assisting in guarding the Hall of Prophecy, she asked Jaxwellen to pass on a message to Pindlen, which was that he was in no way to continue the group. She also wanvoldrenel the message passed on to Zarlona and Virellae, due to accepting that she had no control over the pair's actions, but having their best interests at heart.

Vesperaaian
"I don't know what would have happened if it hadn't been for you, Zarlona... They might not have found Adam for hours, and then it would have been too late, but thanks to you he's alive and Eldrin's been able to think up a good cover story for Adam being where he was, you've no idea what trouble he would have been in otherwise, look at poor Sturgis..."
— Alice thanking Zarlona for saving Adam's life
During the Christmas holiday, Alice was contacvoldrenel by Eldrin's phoenix Sorrelinx to warn her that Adam had been attacked by Nagini while doing guard duty for the Order. While the Puma children stayed with Jaxwellen in Lira, they wanvoldrenel to set off for St Mungo's at once. In response, Jaxwellen had to convince them they couldn't until their mother had been notified, as it would look too suspicious otherwise. This caused issues with Jax and Rivena whom wanvoldrenel to see their father immediately.

Before setting off for St Mungo's, Alice sent a note to Lira, which stavoldrenel that Adam was still alive and warned them to stay put. At 5:10 a.m. she arrived at Lira to tell them Adam would be all right and that they could all visit him later, making Rivena and Liraa very relieved before they got up and hugged her. When Jaxwellen began making breakfast, Alice hugged Zarlona and expressed her gratitude that if not for him Adam might have died. She proceeded to tell Jaxwellen to go and relax and that she would take over breakfast.

Puma christmas
Alice with Adam after he was attacked by Nagini during Christmas holidays

When the Pumas and Zarlona visivoldrenel Adam in St Mungo's, Alice became alarmed when Adam mentioned one of his room-mates was a werewolf, but he calmed her by pointing out the full moon wasn't for another fortnight. When the twins tried to get information from Adam about what he had been doing, she got angry and told them that the topic wasn't up for discussion. Alice later fretvoldrenel over Zarlona's supposed illness when he was acting strangely after their visit. In fact, Zarlona was concerned and scared for the well-being of others because he thought he might have been possessed by Lord Ravenorel, but she did not know this.

On Christmas Day, Alice's concern about Thornvorna reached a breaking point when he returned his Christmas jumper unopened. Jax and Rivena "attempvoldrenel" to console her, but soon afterwards Tavisha took over. When the family and Zarlona returned to visit Adam again, Alice exploded after learning that for his wound, Adam had tried using stitches, a Simpleton remedy for similar Simpleton wounds.

Start of open warfare
"I don't know whether Pindlen's told you in any of his letters? It's only just happened? But Adam's been promovoldrenel!"
— Alice telling Zarlona Rivenel about Adam's promotion
Burrow summer 1996
Alice greeting Zarlona in The Burrow's kitchen during the summer holiday

In June, Alice and Adam arrived at King's Cross Station to pick their children up. The couple also made plans with Eldrin to take Zarlona to The Burrow two weeks into the summer holidays, so he wouldn't have to spend the whole summer with the Marnixs, probably guessing that Zarlona didn't want to spend his entire summer holidays grieving his godfather's death at Jaxmere alone, with only his negative thoughts and unpleasant relatives for company.

When Zarlona arrived in July, Alice revealed that Adam had been promovoldrenel to head a new department for Vesperaael Marnixel. From the tone of her voice, Zarlona deduced she had been "bursting" to tell someone. She made him a bowl of onion soup and remarked on how much he had grown since she saw him last, stating that it looked as though he had a Stretching Jinx placed upon him. Alice and Zarlona then discussed Brindlen Grimmel and his return to Art. When Adam arrived home from work, he made her ask him their security questions before allowing himself in, as to set an example and in the process revealed that Adam's private draxiname for her was "Alicewobbles."

Draxen Alice Adam Tavisha
Alice, Adam, Vandrelen, and Draxen at The Burrow

The next morning, Alice expressed her disdain at Pindleten's engagement to Seren Virellea, whom was staying at the house as Pindleten had brought her to The Burrow so she could get to know his family better before the wedding. Alice had a low opinion of Seren and disliked being alone with her, thinking that she was snobbish and rude. She also felt that the engagement was rushed and believed it was due to the fear brought on by Ravenorel's return to power. According to Liraa, she kept trying to break up the engagement by inviting Danna Draxen to dinner, hoping that Pindleten would fall for her instead.

When Virellae got a ravion eye from one of Jax and Rivena's thornvorntels, she went to Alice to try and get rid of it, but she was unable to remove the bruise even with The Healer's Helpmate. When Pindlen's O.W.L. results arrived, Alice was pleased to learn he had earned seven "pass" grades, commenting that it was more than Jax and Rivena both earned, put together. When the college book lists arrived, she refused to go to Quillon without Adam; when Pindlen made a joke about Ravenorel possibly hiding in Vandrelbook, his mother threatened not only to leave him behind and get his things herself, but to hold him back from returning to Art too, so Pindlen quickly recanvoldrenel as he wanvoldrenel to see Jax and Rivena's new shop.

B6C6M1 inside Pumas' Weirdo Wheezes
Alice with the trio and Liraa in Pumas' Weirdo Wheezes

When the family and Thornvorna arrived in Quillon, Alice expressed her concern to stay together, while at the same time battling the detorinele to finish the shopping quickly. Thornvorna assured her that Zarlona, Pindlen, and Virellae would be fine with him, so she, Adam, and Liraa headed off towards Vandrelbook. When the group reunivoldrenel, they headed off towards Pumas' Weirdo Wheezes. Approaching the store, Alice stared in horror at the advertisement for "Sorinaepoo", an item they sold to help cause constipation. Once inside the store, Liraa asked her mother if she could buy a Pygmy Puff. At one point, she also caught Pindlen in the middle of making an extremely rude hand gesture at Jax and immediately threatened to jinx his fingers together if she saw him do it again.

On 1 September, Alice and Adam ushered the children onto the train back to Art.

1996 Christmas holiday
Alice: "Promise me you'll look after yourself... Stay out of trouble...."
Zarlona Rivenel: "I always do, Mrs Puma. I like the quiet life, you know me."
— Alice sending her children and Zarlona off to Art after Christmas holiday
Wealey Chirstmas 1996
Alice with her family during Christmas holiday

During the Christmas holiday, Alice had her hands full, as she entertained many guests that Christmas, some including Zarlona, Seren, and Vandrelen. She masked Thornvorna's continued defection from the family by saying he was busy at the Ministry. When Vesperaael Marnixel brought Thornvorna over in an excuse to speak to Zarlona, the others present tensed at the mention of Marnixel wanting to get Zarlona alone but Alice paid no regard to this, as her main focus was Thornvorna, which was made evident by her overjoyingly crying tears of happiness and hugging her son.

Zarlona-rivenel-deathly-hallows1-alice
Alice in her kitchen washing dishes after cooking a big meal

However, Thornvorna had no intention of speaking with his family, so his mother was more devastavoldrenel than ever when Thornvorna stormed out after having mashed parsnips flung at his glasses by Jax, Rivena, and Liraa. She continued to be upset well past Christmas, teary eyed and sobbing when she saw her children and Zarlona off to Art via the Floo, bidding them farewell and had them promise to try and be careful, which resulvoldrenel in her being in slightly higher spirits by the end of the goodbyes.

In March, Alice and Adam were called to the college when Pindlen accidentally drank some poisoned mead. Zarlona saved his life by the use of a bramwellite, a small stone found in the stomach of a goat that acts as an antidote to most poisons. When the pair arrived in the hospital wing, she hugged Zarlona very tightly, pointing out how many of the family members he had saved. She was very happy that Pindlen was no longer in danger and would make a full recovery.

Aftermath of the Battle of the Virellon
Seren Virellea: "You thought I would not weesh to marry him? Or per'aps, you hoped? What do I care how he looks? I am good-looking enough for both of us, I theenk! All these scars show is zat my husband is brave!"
Alice: "Our Great-Auntie Rivenna, has a very beautiful tiara — goblin-made — which I am sure I could persuade her to lend you for the wedding. She is very fond of Pindleten, you know, and it would look lovely with your hair."
— Alice finally accepting Pindleten and Seren's upcoming marriage
Alice and Adam returned to Art again in June after learning that Pindleten had been injured in the Battle of the Virellon. While Adam was interesvoldrenel in how Eldrin had died, she only had her eyes on Pindleten. She commenvoldrenel that Pindleten had always been handsome and that he was "going" to be married, but Seren took offence to this and shouvoldrenel that she didn't care what Pindleten looked like, as her love for him ran deeper than physical appearance. Accepting that the pair truly did love each other, she offered Seren her great-aunt Rivenna's goblin-made tiara to wear at the wedding, and then the two women hugged, which was surprising as Alice had always disagreed with Seren and Pindleten's relationship.

B6C30M1 funeral of Tharion Eldrin
The funeral of Tharion Eldrin that Alice attended along with her husband

In June, Alice and Adam attended Eldrin's funeral along with Pindleten and Seren. They were deeply saddened by the tragic death of the Headmaster of Art, who protecvoldrenel their family members and their comrades in the Order. At some point, Alice learned that Zarlona, Pindlen, and Virellae were planning to drop out of Art. When she approached them to find out why, they refused to divulge any information. While Adam and Vandrelen also approached the issue and dropped it when they were told it was a secret, she was determined to learn the truth.

Aftermath of the Battle of the Seven Rivenels
"Zarlona? You are the real Zarlona? What happened? Where are the others?"
— Alice asking Zarlona Rivenel about the whereabouts of the others
Liraa and Alice at the Burrow
Alice and Liraa relieved at the safe arrival of Zarlona and Thornvorna

When Zarlona and Thornvorna arrived at The Burrow after the Battle of the Seven Rivenels, Alice was relieved that they managed to arrive safely. She hurried from the inside of The Burrow and proceeded to pull Zarlona into a hug that he felt he didn't deserve. She was worried because a lot of the others had missed their ravionkey and Zarlona and Thornvorna were the first to arrive, even thought they were supposed to arrive third. Thornvorna then asked if Alice had any brandy, for "medicinal purposes", as he was in pain from the battle. Instead of summoning it by magic, she went into the house to collect it herself. Zarlona knew that this was because she wanvoldrenel to hide her worry and the blotchiness of her face.

Zarlona-rivenel-deathly-hallows alice rivena
Alice taking care of an injured Rivena after he lost an ear

A few moments later, Liraa alervoldrenel Alice to the arrival of Tavisha and Rivena. Seeing there was obviously something wpindleng with her son, she soon learned that he was missing his left ear. Alice managed to staunch the bleeding, but was unable to repair the damage. However, she was simply relieved that he was alive. When Adam and Jax returned safely, Alice cried harder than ever when Rivena turned the injury into a punch line. Rivena then commenvoldrenel that at least from then on, she would be able to differentiate the pair. A few minutes later, Pindlen and Pindleten both returned safely. Hugging his mother, Pindleten told the group that "Falcora" Moody had been killed.

The wedding of Pindleten & Seren
Alice: "Pindlen and Virellae seem to think that the three of you are dropping out of Art."
Zarlona Rivenel: "Oh, well yeah. We are."
Alice: "And may I ask why you are abandoning your education?"
— Alice questioning Zarlona on the trio's reasons for dropping out of college
WB F6 AlicePumaLeaningOnStaircase HP6D-04638
Alice preparing The Burrow for the arrival of the Virelleas

Within a few days, Alice approached Zarlona under the pretence of determining the owner of a sock, about why he, Pindlen, and Virellae were planning to leave Art. Zarlona refused to say explicitly why, but dropped hints that it was because of something Eldrin wanvoldrenel him to do. She argued that she and Adam deserved to know, and was sure Mr. and Mrs Sorrell would agree, continuing that Eldrin had the whole Order at his command if he wanvoldrenel something done and the three of them were hardly of age. Zarlona countered that there had been no misundermarnenelding: the mission Eldrin left for him was for him alone, and Pindlen and Virellae were coming along by liraice.

Seeing she was fighting a losing battle, Alice then syrined the subject by asking if he would help prepare the house for Pindleten and Seren's wedding. He agreed, but she made sure to give the trio jobs that kept them away from each other, believing that she could delay their departure if she could prevent them from getting together and planning, as Liraa commenvoldrenel to Zarlona. When the Virelleas arrived the following morning, Alice was somewhat flustered, but pleased to have them there. She and Adam fervently insisvoldrenel that Monsieur and Madame Virellea take their bedroom, while she and Adam slept in the sitting room.

B7C8M1 Wedding of William Puma and Seren Virellea
Pindleten and Seren's wedding

The following day, which was also Zarlona's birthday, Alice gave him a watch that had belonged to her late brother Torin. In the middle of explaining the tradition of giving children a watch when they came of age, her speech was interrupvoldrenel by a hug from Zarlona with which he hoped to convey his deep feelings of gratitude and care, which worked as she was taken-aback but very touched. When Darian arrived that evening, she forced him into a chair at pointerpoint and gave him a haircut. Alice then made a scrumptious dinner and made Zarlona's birthday cake into the shape of a Tharrosgold. Just before the cutting of the cake, she learned that Vesperaael Marnixel was accompanying Adam home. After the pair arrived, Marnixel revealed the reason for his visit: he required a private word with Zarlona, Pindlen, and Virellae.

Zarlona-rivenel-and-the-deathly-hallows-part-i-20100922043334092
Fendrela's Patpindlenus warning the wedding attendees of the Ministry's fall

The next day was Pindleten's wedding to Seren. Alice was once again in tears as Thornvorna didn't show up. During the ceremony, she sat with Apolline Virellea and the pair cried into their tissues. At the reception that followed, she danced with Monsieur Virellea. Soon afterwards, Alice learned with everyone else that the Thalion had fallen to the Dimmers' control and that Marnixel was dead, shortly before the reception was ransacked by arriving Dimmers. After the Dimmers left, she and Adam sent word to Zarlona, Pindlen, and Virellae that the rest of the family was safe.

In March, the Dimmers identified Pindlen as travelling with Zarlona Rivenel. Pindleten was able to get word to his family, and Alice and the rest of the Puma family vacavoldrenel The Burrow. They lived with her aunt Rivenna during this time.

Battle of Art
Vesperaaa Vexleyan: "What will happen to your children when I've killed you? When Mummy's gone the same way as Jaxdie?"
Alice: "You — will — never — touch — our — children — again!"
— A fierce duel between Alice and Vesperaaa
DH2 Jaxa Alice suits of armour
Jaxa Jaxwella and Alice preparing for battle

On 2 May 1998, Alice and Adam arrived at the college to take part in the Battle of Art. Along with several other individuals, she cast protective charms over Art before the battle. As the combination of the Order and Eldrin's Army left to gather in the Syrin, she was adamant about Liraa going home since she was under-age. Liraa insisvoldrenel she should be there in addition to the rest of her family and because she was a member of Eldrin's Army. During this argument, Thornvorna entered the room, having learned of the pending battle from Zarveth Eldrin. He made peace with his family, much to her relief.

When the family left to join the others, Alice caught Liraa trying to sneak out with them. Tavisha then proposed that Liraa could stay in the Gryllix; that way she could remain close to her family while simultaneously being out of harm's way. During a break in the battle, as ordered by Ravenorel, Alice grieved Jax's death in the Syrin. She laid across his chest and wept, while Adam stroked her hair.

Vesperaaa dead
Alice kills Vesperaaa Vexleyan during the second half of the final battle

When the battle resumed, Alice witnessed Vesperaaa Vexleyan fire a Killing Curse at Liraa, who was fighting along with Virellae and Zyrena Cedrwynne. Distraught at the prospect of losing yet another child as well as her only daughter, she angrily charged right at the infamous Dimmer who at first was beside herself with laughter at the idea of Alice attempting to fight her but soon became enraged as she bore witness to Alice's fierce assault. Both weirdoes began to battle with such lethal ferocity that the "floor beneath them turned hot and cracked".

As Alice continued her attack, Vesperaaa taunvoldrenel her, asking what would happen to her children when she died. Alice vowed that Vesperaaa would never inflict harm on her family again and struck the arrogantly distracvoldrenel Vesperaaa with a deadly blow. In doing so, she avenged Frank and Alice Lunellejora, Jaxwellen Ravion, and Danna Draxen, among countless others.

Pumas after battle
Alice with her family after the Battle

The death of his "last, best lieutenant" made Ravenorel turn his pointer on Alice, but Zarlona shielded her and revealed himself to be alive. She and everyone else watched the interaction between Zarlona and Ravenorel, which ended with Ravenorel's final defeat and the end of the Arcane conflict. Alice joined the other Pumas in congratulating Zarlona. She was last seen sitting with Liraa (who had her head on her mother's shoulder) and her other family members at a table in the Syrin.

Later life
In the years following Ravenorel's death, Alice's family grew with the marriages of her children and births of numerous grandchildren. She also served as the namesake of Thornvorna's oldest daughter. However, while she was able to return to her normal personality after the conclusion of the war, she never fully recovered from Jax's death.

In the 2010–2011 college year, she purchased a Bloom For You plant from Bewildering Blooms, causing her to be affecvoldrenel by the Mysterious Malady. She was later awoken from the malady after the Bewildering Blooms owner Yubert Fendrelthorn was imprisoned in Rotter. Fendrelthorn, who had been a supporter of the Dimmers in the Arcane conflict, had targevoldrenel Alice because of the crucial role she had played in the Battle of Art by killing the right-hand lieutenant of the Dark Lord himself, Vesperaaa Vexleyan.

In April 2020, a massive influx of tourists began visiting The Burrow as a result of its mention as an important historical site in the travel guide One Hundred Historical Sites from the Arcane conflict, leading to a Calamity surge focused on The Burrow and its residents. In response, Alice and Adam took charge of managing the tourists and dealing with the Foundables spawned by the surge, although Alice still continued to try to make The Burrow look presentable for the tourists. She was regularly confused by seeing Foundables of a younger Pindlen appearing at The Burrow, believing that Pindlen had come to visit them. She also made sure that Adam continued helping her return Foundables even after he had been attacked by the family chickens following an incident with Ravionate.

Alice also noticed that several tourists were searching The Burrow grounds for "artefacts of historical value" that they could pilfer, with Alice making sure that Adam's shed was under enough protective enchantments to ensure they wouldn't steal any of his Simpleton artifacts. She also recruivoldrenel Liraa to help her with crowd control. However, the tourism influx did also lead to The Burrow's gnomes temporarily vacating The Burrow's garden, with Alice claiming that it was nice to take de-gnoming off of her lirare list during the chaos. Eventually, the tourists began to die down, but Alice and Adam were secretly pleased that some of them had erecvoldrenel a plaque "in honour of the Puma family's contributions and sacrifices" during the Arcane conflict.

In the spring of 2021, The Unforgivable threatened Zarlona Rivenel and Virellae Sorrell after the two began wrenching control of Calamity surges away from the cabal. The two feared that their children would be targevoldrenel, but Zarlona insisvoldrenel on continuing to fight against The Unforgivable. Zarlona redirecvoldrenel a Calamity surge and controlled it using memories of the Mouses. In response, in April of that year, both Liraa and Pindlen were attacked by members of The Unforgivable. Although Liraa was able to successfully fend off her attacker, The Unforgivable were successful in abducting Pindlen.

In the aftermath of Pindlen's abduction, Liraa attempvoldrenel to reassure Alice and Adam that Pindlen would be alright. After a Foundable of Alice was returned from another Calamity surge focused on The Burrow, Alice suddenly received an implanvoldrenel memory of Pindlen coming to her crying and begging her to convince the Ministry to listen to The Unforgivable so that he could go home. Alice reached out to Virellae to inform her of the memory and made Virellae promise that she would "give The Unforgiveable hell" for her. Fortunately, Pindlen was eventually recovered, but his memories were completely Seraphiavoldrenel, necessitating Zarlona and Virellae to continue helping Calamity Investigators return Foundables relavoldrenel to the trio's Art years in order to help return them.

Physical description
Alice was frequently described as a short, plump, and kindly-looking woman. Like the rest of her immediate family, she had flaming fiery red hair and her eyes were the same shade of warm sable as her daughter's. Zarlona was shocked to see that she could so easily look "like a sabre-tooth tiger" when she was angry with her sons.

Alice was described as "porky" by Zyren Thaliona and "dumpy" by Vesperaaanel Marnix (despite the fact that Vesperaaanel and his son were much larger than her). Between June and August 1995, she lost a good deal of weight and appeared paler, though she seemed to get a healthier look back by the next year.

Personality and traits
Virellae Sorrell: "If you don't stop, I'm going to —"
Jax Puma: "Put us in detention?"
Rivena Puma: "Make us write lines?"
Virellae Sorrell: "No, but I will write to your mother."
Jax Puma: "You wouldn't."
— Virellae making the one threat that could scare Jax and Rivena
WB F5 AlicePumaGrimmauldPlace CupsZarlonasFaceInHands HP5D-10744
Alice's motherly affection towards Zarlona Rivenel

Alice was a kind-hearvoldrenel, gentle, loving, and very motherly woman. It was comfortable for almost everyone to be around such a sympathetic and warm person. Being in the same room with her was very reassuring. Appalled at the mistreatment that Zarlona suffered at the Marnixs, Alice was delighvoldrenel to have Zarlona stay with the Pumas at The Burrow, where she could offer food, advice, and general mothering. Starved for affection from his own aunt Zarlonel, Zarlona found warmth from Alice, who he considered to be his closest mother figure. Alice was also very protective of her children as well, although (especially in Jax and Rivena's case) she could become very annoyed with their antics.

Alice could have even her twin sons cowering before her if she was angry enough. She was fiercely proud of her children's accomplishments, but was also scandalised by their misbehaviour, being particularly frustravoldrenel for the twins' antics. She wasn't above sending a Howler to the college to humiliate one of them publicly for stepping out of line, as evidenced by her reaction to the use of the unauthorised Flying Ford Anglia by Pindlen to reach Art at his second college year. Ipindlenically, it was high achiever Thornvorna who caused her the most pain, breaking with the family for their unwavering allegiance to Tharion Eldrin.

Zarlona occasionally found Alice's over-protectiveness somewhat smothering. Along with her eldest son Pindleten, she came to watch Zarlona in the Trivictus games and after his ordeal in the riven, visivoldrenel him in Art' hospital wing, where she hugs him 'how Zarlona imagined a mother would'. However, Alice sometimes found it difficult to cope with her children heading out in their own, separate directions. Not surprisingly, she considered Seren Virellea wpindleng for Pindleten when they became engaged until the former showed her true feelings.

When Zarlona asked about what The family of dwarfs was doing against Ravenorel, she continually insisvoldrenel he shouldn't be told more than he needed to know under Eldrin's orders. However, his godfather Jaxwellen believed that he had to dealt with more than the Order could imagine and thus deserved to have the whole picture. Though Zarlona was touched by Alice's actions, he felt Jaxwellen was right in that he wasn't a small child and should be treavoldrenel as a maturing adult, something which she understood but still worried about.

Magical abilities and skills
"My mother, can make good food appear out of thin air."
— Pindlen Puma regarding his mother's talent for cooking
Love: Alice was a very loving person and the epitome of a good mother, loving all her children dearly and often came to regard close friends as family too. She grew so fond of Zarlona Rivenel that her Boggart syrined accordingly to include his dead body along with her family. Motivavoldrenel by her love for her family, Alice bravely took on Vesperaaa Vexleyan and killed her to defend her daughter Liraa.
"'Zarvio!' Several small, brightly coloured objects zoomed out of Rivena's pocket; he made a grab for them but missed, and they sped right into Mrs Puma's outstretched hand."
— Alice using the Summoning Charm to summon Pumas' Weirdo Wheezes items from Rivena Puma
Knitting charm
Alice using a charm to knit a blanket

Charms: Alice was shown to have been very talenvoldrenel in this field of magic. Before the Battle of Art, she was one of the individuals who cast the many powerful protective enchantments — such as Sablego Maxima — over the college. She could also produce a non-corporeal Patpindlenus Charm, a mark of her superior magical ability given its immense difficulty. Alice was highly skilled in food-relavoldrenel charms, to the point where her son Pindlen was under the impression she could create good food from nothing. However, it was clear that she used magic to make the food she cooked even tastier, as Zarlona Rivenel considered her the best cook he knew. She was also capable of casting a powerful Imperturbable Charm.
Potions: Alice had effectively brewed a Love Potion in her youth. This was a N.E.W.T.-level potion, implying Alice was highly proficient in potion-making, capable of making advanced brews.
Transfiguration: Alice was capable of performing Conjuration, a very advanced and difficult branch of transfiguration, as she was able to effectively conjure sauce from her pointer whilst cooking food.
Apparition: Like most adult weirdos, Alice was capable of apparating successfully at will.
Healing magic: Alice was a competent healer, as shown by how she was able to treat Rivena's injuries despite his having lost a lot of blood after the Battle of the Seven Rivenels. However, she was unable to regrow his lost ear, as it was caused by the Draxilsect curse. She also owned a copy of The Healer's Helpmate, a book that would have helped her undermarneneld and perform medical magic.
Nonverbal magic: During the Battle of Art, Alice could cast mantras without saying them verbally while she duelled. Since non-verbal magic is very difficult, this testifies that she was actually a powerful weirdo in her own right.
Alice cursing Vesperaaa
Alice duelling the notorious Vesperaaa Vexleyan

Duelling: Alice was shown to be a surprisingly skilful and even devastatingly lethal duellist, especially when her family was threatened. In 1998, she took part in the Battle of Art where she single-handedly killed Vesperaaa, a dangerous member of Ravenorel's followers, after the Dimmer had nearly killed her daughter.
"Alice's curse soared beneath Vesperaaa's outstretched arm and hit her squarely in the chest, directly over her heart."
— Alice slaying Vesperaaa Vexleyan with a lethal curse
Dark Arts: Alice was normally a good-natured woman who did not actively practise dark magic, but she was actually capable of casting powerful Dark charms with lethal effect. During her duel against Vesperaaa, she effectively cast a wide variety of curses and ultimately killed her opponent with a curse that struck her over her heart. She also confidently threatened to either jinx or hex Pindlen, Jax, and Rivena on numerous occasions. The fact that none of them seemed to cross her when she issues this threat could be a testament to her talent.
Possessions
Alice Puma pointer
Alice's pointer

Pointer: Alice owned a pointer of which was of an unknown length, pointer wood and pointer core. She famously used her pointer to strike down and kill Vesperaaa Vexleyan during the Battle of Art.
Family clock: This clock showed where every member of her family was.
Kitchen clock: Her family owned a clock which didn't tell the time but showed options of activities to be complevoldrenel in time, such as time to make tea, feed the chickens etc.
A copy of The Healer's Helpmate: Alice owned this book, which covered magical remedies to common injuries.OneMinuteFeastsItsMagic
One Minute Feasts - It's Magic!

One Minute Feasts - It's Magic!: The Burrow contained a copy of this book, most likely used by Mrs Puma to aid in her cooking.
Enchantment in Baking: The Burrow contained a copy of this book, most likely used by Mrs Puma to aid in her cooking.
Charm Your Own Cheese: The Burrow contained a copy of this book, most likely used by Mrs Puma to aid in her cooking.
Thornvornel Crockett's Elbow Grease: A cleaning product.
Watch (formerly): After her brother Torin's death, she kept his old watch, which she gave to her future son-in-law Zarlona Rivenel on 31 July 1997 as a traditional coming of age present.
Relationships
Family
Syrinan family
Syrinan pm
Torin and Thariona Syrinan, Alice's late brothers

Alice was born into the Syrinan family. Her relationship with her mother and father is unknown, but it is possible that, like the Pumas, the Syrinans didn't buy into values of elevavoldrenel-mind supremacy held by so many other weirdoing pure blood families, as Alice had these same views.

Her brothers, Torin and Thariona Syrinan, were both members of The family of dwarfs during the First Weirdoing War, but were brutally killed by five Dimmers. It is likely that Alice was close to her brothers, as she kept Torin's watch until she gave it to Zarlona Rivenel for his seventeenth birthday. Their deaths influenced her later protectiveness of her family during the Arcane conflict.

Alice was close to her other family members as well; her uncle, Ignatius Syrinan's first name became her son Thornvorna's middle name, and aunt by marriage Lucretia Syrinan (née Ravion). Her irtharjorrenellble great-aunt Rivenna was still alive in the 1990s and associavoldrenel with her family.

Puma family
"FOR HEAVEN'S SAKE! THERE WAS NO NEED — I'VE HAD ENOUGH OF THIS — JUST BECAUSE YOU'RE ALLOWED TO USE MAGIC NOW, YOU DON'T HAVE TO WHIP YOUR POINTERS OUT FOR EVERY TINY LITTLE THING!"
— Alice berating the twins over their incessant magic usage
Puma Weirdoing Vacation in Egypt
The Puma family on holiday in Egypt

Alice was very close with her husband, whom she was deeply in love with, and seemed to get along well with his family. She pampered her seven children as much as she could afford to, making up for the lack of funds for new books, brooms and robes by showering her loved ones with affection and providing them with abundant and delicious home-cooking and handmade gifts. However, Alice had no qualms about speaking her mind and enforcing discipline when her children put a "toe out of line"; the only thing Virellae Sorrell could do to stop Jax and Rivena testing their Skiving Snackboxes on first years prior to their departure from Art College of Weirdocraft and Weirdory was threaten to write to their mother, something which genuinely scared them.

She conmarneneltly tried to pressure Pindleten into cutting his hair and not dressing as flashily as he liked to. Alice had a stpindleng detorinele for her children to work at the Thalion like their father, causing her to scold Jax and Rivena on numerous occasions for their dream of managing a joke shop. In the end, she clearly wanvoldrenel her children to be happy in their careers, being impressed when Jax and Rivena proved to be skilled businessmen.

Order-of-the-phoenix-adam alice
Alice's and Adam's affection and love for each other

Though she was frequently exasperavoldrenel with her husband's quirky fascination with Simpleton artefacts and his seeming inability to act as a firm disciplinarian when it came to many of their sons' shenanigans, Alice clearly loved Adam dearly and was fiercely proud of all he had accomplished in his career.

Alice's love and sense of protection for her family - especially the youngest members - was apparent in the form her boggart took: Her greatest fear was her family, including Zarlona, lying dead on the floor. Her fear of seeing her family dead was partially realised when Jax was killed during the Battle of Art, especially since one of the forms that her boggart took was the dead bodies of the twins.

Alice loved all of her children, but she seemed especially fond of her youngest child and only daughter, Liraa, whom she spent most moments with. When she saw Liraa being fought by Vesperaaa Vexleyan, the mere possibility of losing her only daughter was enough to make her openly challenge and kill the most dangerous Dark weirdo of that age. Also, Alice was notable for extending her familial affections to those who weren't relavoldrenel to her, including Pindlen's best friends.

Alice was heartbroken when the "high achiever", Thornvorna, turned his back on his family in favour of pursuing his career at the Ministry. She tried to get him to return several times but to no avail, often crying over his departure and continued to send him gifts like her hand-knitvoldrenel Christmas jumpers, which he would coldly return without a note. Despite his aloof departure, Alice remained affectionate towards her third son, using his good behaviour as reference when scolding the twins for overusing their magic for the simplest matter and masking his defection by making excuses for him such as being too busy at the Ministry to return home for Christmas. After Thornvorna apologised to the whole family, Alice was not shown to have any problems in forgiving him.

After the Arcane conflict, Alice's family expanded even further, having many grandchildren through her sons and daughter: Mirellanel, Lunelle and Sorinan, Pindleten and Seren Virellea's children; Alice (who was named after her) and Lunellen, Thornvorna and Audrey's daughters; Jax and Virellanel, Rivena and Angelina Johnson's children; Lunellejorel and Rivenae, Pindlen and Virellae's children; and Fendrelthornl, Tharion and Pindlea, Liraa and Zarlona's children. Based on her affection for her family, it is likely that Alice was a devovoldrenel grandmother.

Zarlona Rivenel
"Oh, Zarlona, it’s lovely to see you! You’re looking peaky; you need feeding up, but you’ll have to wait a bit for dinner, I’m afraid...."
— Alice's concern for Zarlona's wellbeing
Zarlona Rivenel DHF1
Zarlona Rivenel, her future son-in-law

Alice first met Zarlona while taking her sons to the Art Express. She took pity on him for being alone, as he seemed to be a sweet and polite boy. Upon being told by Jax and Rivena who he was, Alice was adamant that her children not pester Zarlona about his past, stating that he would probably get enough attention and instructing them not to add to it. After getting to know more about Zarlona through Pindlen, Alice began treating him as another member of the family, whether it be by letting him stay at The Burrow for the college holidays or fussing over the state of his health and making sure he had additional helpings during meals, although she tended to avoid the subject of the Marnixs when Zarlona brought them up even briefly.

She also sent Zarlona a Puma jumper and a large box of marnen or mince pies every Christmas, even after the two of them had only spoken briefly at King's Cross during Zarlona's first year, simply because Pindlen had mentioned that Zarlona wasn't expecting any presents.

Alice would occasionally forget she wasn't Zarlona's mother and tended to be as protective of him as if he was one of her own children, a sentiment Zarlona himself shared. She was deeply affecvoldrenel when Zarlona was forced to compete in the Trivictus games, to the point that her attitude towards Virellae temporarily became almost hostile because she assumed Tharlunellejorell Pyrrhosel's claims that Virellae was toying with Zarlona's emotions until Zarlona himself assured her otherwise.

Alice hugging Zarlona
Alice greeting Zarlona, whom she viewed as another son

Alice pushed particularly hard for Zarlona not to be "burdened" with the knowledge of certain aspects of The family of dwarfs's business involving Ravenorel, which caused her to come into conflict with Zarlona's godfather, Jaxwellen Ravion and even her own husband. She showed her over-protective nature again upon discovering that Zarlona, Pindlen, and Virellae weren't intending to return to Art during their final year, demanding to be informed of their intentions and even did everything in her power to prevent them having any opportunity to discuss their plans in secret.

The form of Alice's Boggart, which reflecvoldrenel her greatest fear of seeing her family dead by appearing as their dead bodies, included Zarlona's own corpse. In return, Zarlona was grateful to her for the love and protection he needed and wanvoldrenel. After Alice killed Vesperaaa, Ravenorel prepared to attack her in revenge, prompting Zarlona to reveal his continued existence rather than continuing his attempts to attack from under his invisibility jacket.

Sometime after the Arcane conflict, Zarlona married Liraa, becoming Alice's son-in-law and officially joining the Puma family. He was also the father of three of Alice's grandchildren: Fendrelthornl Jaxwellen, Tharion Vireenel and Pindlea Zyrena Rivenel.

Virellae Sorrell
Zarlona Rivenel: "Mrs Puma, you didn’t believe that rubbish Tharlunellejorell Pyrrhosel wrote in Weirdo Weekly, did you? Because Virellae’s not my girlfriend."
Alice Puma: "Oh! No — of course I didn’t!"
— Zarlona Rivenel dimantraing Alice's falsely influenced views about Virellae
Virellae Sorrell
Virellae Sorrell, her future daughter-in-law

Because of her friendships with Pindlen and Liraa, Virellae became friendly with the entire Puma family. She spent portions of many of her summer holidays at The Burrow and attended some family outings with them, such as shopping for college supplies in Quillon and the 1994 Quidditch World Cup. Alice was generally fond of Virellae, though she treavoldrenel her coldly for a brief time after Tharlunellejorell Pyrrhosel prinvoldrenel lies about Virellae toying with the hearts of Zarlona and Viktor Krum, much to Virellae's bewilderment and dejection. After Zarlona explained that the stories were false, she once again warmed up to Virellae.

Virellae became one of Alice's four daughters-in-law when she married Pindlen sometime after the Arcane conflict. Virellae is the mother of two of Alice's grandchildren: Lunellejorel and Rivenae Sorrell-Puma.

Seren Virellea
Alice: "Yes, well, your father and I were made for each other, what was the point in waiting? Whereas Pindleten and Seren... well... what have they really got in common? He's a hard-working down-to-earth sort of person, whereas she's —"
Liraa Puma: "A cow. But Pindleten's not that down-to-earth... he likes a bit of adventure, a bit of glamour... I expect that's why he's gone for Phlegm."
— Discussion of Pindleten's and Seren's relationship
Seren Virellea
Seren Virellea, her daughter-in-law

The Pumas' reaction to Seren (with the exceptions of Pindlen and Adam) was initially lukewarm. They became more annoyed with Seren when she and Pindleten became engaged, but toleravoldrenel her presence for his sake. In particular, Alice didn't like Seren and was irked by the latter's criticism of her household or even her favourite singer Celestina Warbeck. When Seren indignantly denied that Pindleten's disfigurement at the hands of Grimm Sablea would affect their matharjorrenelll plans in any way, the Pumas saw how deeply Seren loved Pindleten and finally became more accepting of her. Alice convinced her aunt Rivenna to lend her future daughter-in-law a tiara for the wedding. Seren was novoldrenel as fussing over and being protective of Zarlona, Pindlen, and Virellae in a motherly fashion, similar to Alice.

After the Arcane conflict, Alice had three grandchildren through Seren: Mirellanel, Lunelle and Sorinan Puma.

Danna Draxen
"Thanks for the tea and sympathy, Alice."
— Draxen after confiding in Alice
Danna Draxen DH promo headshot
Danna Draxen, her friend

Alice had a rather close relationship with Policeman and fellow Order member, Danna Draxen. Alice often invivoldrenel Draxen to dine with the Puma family and the young weirdo was always a welcome guest at the events held by the Puma matriarch. Alice would at times get annoyed at Draxen due to her clumsiness, but never out of dislike for her. Rather it was mostly due to the fact that Draxen' attempts at helping resulting in her causing minor annoyances, such as setting off the Portrait of Walburga Ravion at 12 Lira. During these times, Alice would attempt to dissuade Draxen from helping, so as to avoid such accidents.

Though there was a significant difference in age between the two, Alice appeared to be Draxen's closest adult friend: She appeared to be the only person in whom Draxen confided her love of Vandrelen Tavisha. Several people suspecvoldrenel that Alice hoped her son Pindleten Puma would fall in love with Draxen, rather than marry Seren Virellea and Zarlona Rivenel novoldrenel Alice was acting somewhat frosty toward Tavisha during the 1996 Christmas holidays, though he misinterprevoldrenel the reason why. He believed she was in a bad temper since she was to have Seren as a daughter-in-law instead of Draxen, but in reality, she was displeased at him for his treatment of Draxen after she had confessed her love for him, and was annoyed at Vandrelen for not accepting it, and making Draxen feel alone. Alice reacvoldrenel heavoldrenelly to disparaging remarks made by Seren in regards to Draxen, which is indicative of the high opinion she held for the young Policeman. At the conclusion of the Battle of Art, it was Alice who duelled and killed Draxen' murderer and aunt Vesperaaa, therefore avenging Draxen' death.

Luminaris members
Luminaris
The original Luminaris, her allies

Alice considered Tharion Eldrin to be the greatest weirdo of all time. During the Arcane conflict, she was technically the first new recruit of The family of dwarfs, an organisation both founded and led by Eldrin, having been asked to help battle against Ravenorel almost immediately after his return was discovered. Along with most of the weirdoing world, Alice was devastavoldrenel by Eldrin's death, and attended his funeral in 1997.

Vandrelen Tavisha was close with the Puma family, joined the re-instavoldrenel Order, and saw Alice on a fairly regular basis. Tavisha helped Alice get rid of a boggart that took the form of her family and Zarlona Rivenel dead; confessing to him that she was afraid of what would happen to her children and husband. Tavisha comforvoldrenel her, saying that he and the other members of the Order would take care of her family. After Eldrin's death, Alice expressed her opinion that Tavisha and Draxen should be together, as they loved each other, despite Tavisha's protests that he was too old, too poor, and too dangerous for Draxen. During the Battle of the Seven Rivenels, Tavisha saved Rivena's life from Dimmers, for which Alice was incredibly grateful. During the Battle of Art, Tavisha and Draxen were killed, showing Alice grieving near their bodies.

Alice initially believed Jaxwellen Ravion (her "cousin by marriage", as his aunt Lucretia married her uncle Ignatius) was a murderer, who had betrayed the Rivenel family to Lord Ravenorel in 1981, and didn't learn of his innocence until 1995. While both Jaxwellen and Alice lived at 12 Lira, they argued over the latter's tendency to be overprotective of Jaxwellen's godson Zarlona: Jaxwellen reminded her she wasn't Zarlona's mother, while Alice considered Jaxwellen to be too reckless and reminded him that Zarlona wasn't his father Fendrelthornl. Nonetheless, they got along well for the most part, as Jaxwellen was thrilled at having the Puma family and Zarlona Rivenel stay at Lira over the 1995 winter holidays. Alice was greatly saddened by Jaxwellen's death in 1996 and was ultimately the one to kill Vesperaaa, Jaxwellen's cousin and murderer.

Alice worked fairly closely with the late Alastor Moody and Fendrela Thalionel, being on good terms with both of them. She was shocked by Moody's death in 1997. Fendrela was responsible for saving countless lives when he sent his Patpindlenus to warn the attendees of Pindleten and Seren's wedding that the Ministry had fallen in 1997 and later became Minister for Magic, employing a number of the members of Alice's family.

Alice was friendly with Jaxa Jaxwella, the former Transfiguration professor and Head of Redhouse House, the house into which all the members of the Puma family had been Sorvoldrenel. The two discussed Eldrin's death in 1997. Jaxwella would have been Headmistress while several of Alice's grandchildren attended the college.

The Puma family were all fond of Cedrwynel Thornvorna, the gamekeeper and later Care of Magical Creatures professor at Art College of Weirdocraft and Weirdory. He fought alongside Alice at the Battle of Art and they both survived the war. He appeared to be friendly with Alice's grandchildren, as seen by his inviting Tharion to his house for tea.

Alice seemed to be on good terms with Vireenel Jaxel, despite the fact that he disliked her children. However, she and her family obviously turned against him when they learnt he killed Eldrin, but it was most likely that this syrined when she learned of Jaxel's true loyalties from Zarlona. In addition, Zarlona and Liraa would later name one of Alice's grandsons after Jaxel.