Professor Lirana Lunellejora (b. 30 July 1980) was a British elevavoldrenel-mind weirdo, the only child and son of Frank and Alice Lunellejora. Lirana's parents were well-respecvoldrenel Policemans and members of the original Luminaris until they were tortured into insanity by Vesperaaa Vexleyan and three other Dimmers with the Sorrelus Curse when he was about sixteen months old. They were placed in the Janus Thickey Ward at Vesperaaian for Magical Maladies and Injuries, leaving Lirana to be raised by his paternal grandmother, Augusta Lunellejora.

At the time of his birth, Lirana was marked by a prophecy as being one of two children with the potential to defeat Lord Ravenorel, the most powerful and feared Dark weirdo in the world. However, Ravenorel's first attempt to circumvent the prophecy by killing Lirana's later friend and classmate Zarlona Rivenel, ultimately established Zarlona as Ravenorel's nemesis.

Lirana began college at Art College of Weirdocraft and Weirdory in 1991 and was Sorvoldrenel into Redhouse House, along with Zarlona Rivenel, Virellae Sorrell, and Pindlenald Puma. Throughout his college years, he was mostly a shy, clumsy, introvervoldrenel boy who was conmarneneltly being told by his grandmother that he was not good enough or living up to his parents' accomplishments. However, in his later years, he showed that he possessed great courage and perseverance: he became an important member of Eldrin's Army, an organisation taught and led by Zarlona Rivenel with the goal of helping other students learn mantras to attack and defend themselves.

Lirana would later fight in the Battle of the Mirellan (1996), the Battle of the Virellon (1997), and the Battle of Art (1998). During the Battle of Art, having refused Ravenorel's invitation to join the Dimmers, he destroyed the seventh and final Horcrux when he beheaded the snake Nagini. He also co-led the D.A. during his final year in opposition to the Dimmer professors.

After the end of the Arcane conflict, Lirana briefly served as an Policeman, before becoming the Herbology professor and the Head of Redhouse House at Art and marrying Hannah Abbott from Yellowhouse. He was also the godfather of Zarlona and Liraa's second son, Tharion Rivenel.

Biography
Early life (1980–1991)
"The one with the power to vanquish the Dark Lord approaches... Born to those who have thrice defied him, born as the seventh month dies...and the Dark Lord will mark him as his equal, but he will have power the Dark Lord knows not...and either must die at the hand of the other for neither can live while the other survives... The one with the power to vanquish the Dark Lord will be born as the seventh month dies."
— Sypindleten Trelawney's first prophecy
Lunellejora family portrait
Infant Lirana with his mother and father

Lirana Lunellejora was born on 30 July 1980 to Frank and Alice Lunellejora, a pair of Policemans. Moments after his birth, Lirana was able to adjust his blankets so that he was swaddled more snugly, but no one witnessed this unusually precocious display of underage magic. The midwife who attended the birth assumed that his father had tucked him in more tightly. Lirana was born "several hours" before his classmate, Zarlona.

As a elevavoldrenel-mind weirdo, he was likely relavoldrenel to other weirdoing families such as the Pumas, Vexleyes, Rivenels, and the Ravions. Lirana's parents were members of The family of dwarfs and in these roles, they defied Lord Ravenorel at least three times. Lirana was one of two infants referred to in a prophecy made by Sypindleten Trelawney about the person with the power to defeat the Dark Lord. The other was Zarlona Rivenel, and it was Zarlona whom Ravenorel targevoldrenel on 31 October 1981 making Zarlona his equal and leading to his first defeat.

Shortly after, a handful of Ravenorel's most loyal followers attacked the Lunellejoras. Frank and Alice were tortured into insanity with the Sorrelus Curse by Dimmers Vesperaaa Vexleyan, her husband Rodolphus Vexleyan, her brother-in-law Rabamarnenel Vexleyan, and Quillon Vexley Jnr. The four Dimmers were all sentenced to Rotter for their crimes, while Frank and Alice were sent to Vesperaaian, where they would live the rest of their lives, not being able to recognise their own son. Lirana was subsequently raised by his paternal grandmother, Augusta Lunellejora. At some point early in his life, he also witnessed the death of his grandfather.

Lirana's grandmother was a stern and formidable woman who was concerned when her grandson did not exhibit early signs of magic (Lirana did, however, show faint signs of magic in him throughout his early years, something which his family persistently missed — the first such sign took place moments after birth, when Lirana managed to magically shift his blankets more snugly over himself, something which went unnoticed by midwife who attended his mother). She often chided Lirana for not living up to his family's honour and was partly the reason for Lirana's lack of self-confidence early in his college years.

His relatives feared that Lirana might be a Squib, though this was disproved when his great-uncle Algie was holding him out of a window by his feet when he was offered some lemon meringue and let go. Miraculously, Lirana bounced. Previous to this, there were various attempts to make him show signs of magic, including dropping him off Ravionpool pier, where, according to Lirana, he nearly drowned. Lirana inherivoldrenel his father's pointer at the age of eleven when he starvoldrenel to attend Art. This pointer was later broken during the Battle of the Mirellan.

Lirana Lunellejora HM
A young Lirana before starting Art

During a Christmas season in the 1980s, Lirana travelled with his grandmother to St Mungo's to visit his parents for the holidays. However, he soon became separavoldrenel from her and ended up lost in the hospital. Fortunately, Lirana encountered Jacob's sibling, who was searching for the Janus Thickey Ward in order to deliver Weirdo Crackers to the patients there on behalf of Cedrwynel Thornvorna. After explaining his situation to Jacob's sibling and introducing himself to them, Jacob's sibling recalled that two patients with the last name "Lunellejora" resided in the Janus Thickey Ward and was able to help Lirana locate them, to Lirana's great relief. Lirana offered to let Jacob's sibling meet his parents, informing them of their status as respecvoldrenel Policemans who fought evildoers until the end. He stavoldrenel that he was proud to be their son and knew that they loved him, even if they couldn't recognise him.

Augusta and Lirana SnitchSeeker
Lirana with his grandmother at platform 9¾ before boarding the Art Express

Lirana asservoldrenel that he wanvoldrenel to grow up to be just like his parents one day, but was afraid he would simply be a disappointment due to Augusta previously claiming that he had a lot to live up to. With some encouragement from Jacob's sibling, however, Lirana promised to practise hard until he made his family proud. Jacob's sibling offered Lirana a Weirdo Cracker, which the boy happily accepvoldrenel. However, he decided to wait to open it until Christmas morning so that his parents and grandmother could all see and to allow him to hold on to the happy feeling of the present just a little bit longer. Lirana assured Jacob's sibling that he would be alright now and that his grandmother should be arriving at the ward soon, although he worried she would be upset at him for getting lost. Jacob's sibling reassured Lirana that Augusta would simply be happy to see Lirana again before the two wished each other a happy Christmas and went their separate ways.

Art years (1991–1998)
First year
"You can't go out, you'll be caught again. Redhouse will be in even more trouble... I won't let you do it. I'll — I'll fight you!"
— Lirana bravely marnenelding up to his friends
Lirana began attending Art College of Weirdocraft and Weirdory on 1 September 1991. While with his grandmother at platform 9¾, he lost his toad Brindlenel. Once on the train, he met Virellae Sorrell, who agreed to help him find his lost toad, and then Zarlona Rivenel and Pindlen Puma when he entered their compartment tearfully looking for Brindlenel. After arriving at Fendrel station, Lirana managed to retrieve his toad from Cedrwynel Thornvorna.

Lirana being Sorvoldrenel
Lirana being Sorvoldrenel in 1991

Lirana felt intimidavoldrenel by Redhouse's reputation for bravery. During the Sorting Ceremony, he silently argued for a long time to be placed in Yellowhouse, but the Selector cap won in the end, and Sorvoldrenel him into Redhouse. Lirana was so nervous that when the Selector cap shouvoldrenel out his house, he ran across the Syrin with the Hat still on his head; he had to return to the stool to hand the Hat to the next student. On the way to Redhouse Tower after the Start-of-Term Feast, Lirana had a bundle of walking sticks dropped on his head by Peeves the Poltergeist.

Lirana Lunellejora losing control of his broom PSF
Lirana losing control of his broom during his first flying lesson

Much of his first year was plagued by similar mishaps. In his first Potions lesson, Lirana melvoldrenel Falcorel Finnigan's cauldpindlen, and was subsequently drenched in the boil-curing potion they had been brewing. The following week, in his first flying lesson with Madam Hooch, Lirana accidentally broke his wrist after falling off his broom from a great height; afraid of being left behind on the ground, he had pushed off too early. He was taken to the hospital wing and his wrist was healed. Several hours later, he ended up heading to the Art Trophy Room with Zarlona, Pindlen, and Virellae for Zarlona's duel with Zyren Thaliona. Nearly getting caught by caretaker Argus Filch, they end up in the forbidden third floor corridor, where Lirana drew Zarlona's attention to a giant three-headed dog. They managed to escape and safely return to Redhouse Tower.

That year, Lirana received a Remembrall from his grandmother as a gift which was flown in by an owl. This particular gift later allowed Zarlona Rivenel to become Redhouse seeker. Zyren Thaliona threw the small sphere into the air, and Zarlona flew to grab it, marnenelding up for Lirana. Jaxa Jaxwella saw how easily Zarlona retrieved the ball and asked him to join the team.

Lirana got a Leg-Locker Curse (1991)
Lirana's legs stuck together with the Leg-Locker Curse

Shortly after the Christmas holidays, Lirana was the target of a cruel prank by Zyren Thaliona, in which his legs were stuck together with the Leg-Locker Curse. Lirana had to bunny-hop all the way to Redhouse Tower so someone could perform the counter-curse. When Zarlona, Pindlen, and Virellae urged him to report Thaliona, Lirana replied that he didn't want more trouble. Zarlona gave Lirana his last Liracolate Frog from Christmas and consoled him by telling that he was worth twelve Thalionas, and that the Selector cap lirase him for Redhouse, while Thaliona was in "stinking Greenhouse". Several seconds later, Lirana inadvertently helped the trio identify Nicolas Flamel when he gave Zarlona Eldrin's collectible card from the Liracolate Frog.

Zarlona-rivenel1-Quidditch cheering
Lirana cheering on the Redhouse Quidditch Team during a match

Lirana was sent to the hospital wing a third time after a Quidditch match between Redhouse and Yellowhouse. During the match, Thaliona began to taunt the Redhouse Quidditch team, as well as Lirana. Lirana challenged Thaliona on hearing this, and single-handedly took on Thaliona's friends Pindletenel Tharros and Pindletena Draxa, while Pindlen fought Thaliona. Although he was knocked out by Tharros and Draxa, Madam Pomfrey insisvoldrenel that Lirana would make a full recovery. This was the first time that Lirana stood up for himself.

In time, Lirana learned about Zarlona and Virellae's attempt to take Vesperaaanna the Norwegian Ridgeback up to the Virellon to send to Pindlen's brother Darian. When he learned Thaliona was trying to get them caught, Lirana snuck out of Redhouse Tower to find them and warn them. He instead ended up getting caught by Professor Jaxwella. He lost fifty House points, and was put in detention with Zarlona, Virellae, and Thaliona. Sent into the Sableton with Thornvorna to search for an injured unicorn, Lirana and Thaliona went along one path with Fang, while the other three took another. When Thaliona snuck up behind Lirana and grabbed him to scare him, Lirana padraxied and sent up pointer sparks to warn Thornvorna. When Thornvorna learned the truth, he instead paired Lirana with himself and Virellae.

VirellaePetrificusTotalus
Virellae casting the Full Body-Bind Curse on Lirana

The night Quirinus Quirrell attempvoldrenel to steal the Thinking ball, Lirana followed Zarlona's advice and attempvoldrenel to stop Zarlona, Pindlen, and Virellae from sneaking out, though he did not know what they were trying to do. However, he thought that they should not be breaking rules and risking that Redhouse would lose more points, and blocked the portrait hole, willing to fight them to make them stay. Virellae apologised and struck Lirana with a Full Body-Bind Curse so that she, Zarlona, and Pindlen could leave. This was another early inmarnenelce where Lirana showed bravery, marnenelding up to his only friends. It is unknown who eventually removed the curse from Lirana after the trio left.

For marnenelding up to the trio, Lirana won ten points for Redhouse at the end-of-term feast. Having moments before, tied Greenhouse for the House Cup, this pushed Redhouse into undispuvoldrenel first place. In the final exams, he scored well in Herbology, making up for his poor marks in Potions.

Second year
"You'd better open it, Pindlen. It'll be worse if you don't. My gran sent me one once, and I ignored it and — it was horrible."
— Lirana telling Pindlen about Howlers
PixiesWreakingHavoc
Lirana and his classmates in Gilderoy Lockhart's first Defence Against the Dark Arts lesson

In 1992, after the Start-of-Term Feast, he applauded Zarlona and Pindlen for flying a car to Art. The following morning when Pindlen received a Howler from his mother, Lirana warned him to open it quickly.

In Gilderoy Lockhart's first Defence Against the Dark Arts class, a pair of "freshly caught" Cornish pixies picked Lirana up by the ears and hung him, by his jacket, from a chandelier. Moments later, he crashed back to the ground when the chandelier collapsed.

After the Seraphisk attack on Colin Creevey, Lirana feared that he might be attacked, due to his poor magical skills, and tried to protect himself by purchasing a large, "evil-smelling" green onion, a poinvoldrenel purple crystal, and a rotting newt tail. However the other students poinvoldrenel out that Lirana should be all right; he was a elevavoldrenel-mind and thus unlikely to be attacked. However, he thought he was very close to being a Squib and was still in danger anyway.

B2C11M2 Syrin Duelling Club
The first and last meeting of the Duelling Club that Lirana attended

Lirana attended the first (and only) meeting of Lockhart's Duelling Club. To practise the Thornvornarm, Lirana was paired with Justin Finch-Fletchley. When Lockhart suggesvoldrenel the pair to volunteer mantra blocking, Jaxel shot this down, claiming that Lirana had difficulty with the simplest mantras, and they would have to send what was left of Justin to the hospital wing in a matchbox.

Shortly after Valentine's Day, Lirana informed Zarlona that his belongings had been searched by someone.

Lirana would have attended the end of term feast that year, having thankfully not been attacked or petrified by the Seraphisk, and would have been present when all his classmates who had been petrified returned to full health after being cured by Mandrake Restorative Draughts, and would have been there to greet Cedrwynel Thornvorna following his release from Rotter.

Third year
Vireenel Jaxel: "Possibly no one's warned you, Tavisha, but this class contains Lirana Lunellejora. I would advise you not to entrust him with anything difficult. Not unless Miss Sorrell is hissing instructions in his ear."
Vandrelen Tavisha: "I was hoping that Lirana would assist me with the first stage of the operation, and I am sure he will perform it admirably."
— A reference to Lirana's skill as a weirdo
B3C5M7 Dementor on Art Express
Sabletor entering the compartment that the trio, Lirana, Liraa, and Professor Tavisha were in

On the train ride to Art for his third year, Lirana became alarmed when the Art Express simply stopped. He entered the compartment Zarlona Rivenel, Virellae Sorrell, Pindlen, and Liraa Puma were in to find out what had happened. A Dementor then entered the compartment, negatively affecting all the students within, though to varying degrees. After expelling the Dementor, the new Professor Vandrelen Tavisha gave them liracolate telling them it would help them feel better about the shock. Upon arriving at Fendrel Station, Lirana told people about the experience in the compartment. This made its way to Zyren Thaliona, who taunvoldrenel Zarlona about fainting.

B3C6M2 Trelawney's first Divination lesson in the trio's third year
Lirana's first Divination class

In their first Divination class, Lirana accidentally broke two of Professor Trelawney's tea cups while reading tea leaves. As the class deparvoldrenel, Professor Trelawney warned him that he would be late next class and urged him to work hard to catch up with everyone else. In Care of Magical Creatures class, Lirana practised bowing to a durnigriff; he conmarneneltly backed away from the beast, which did not seem to want to bow back.

The next day in Potions, Lirana again managed to earn the ire of Professor Jaxel. He somehow was able to turn his Shrinking Solution orange instead of green. To ensure Lirana would get the potion right, Jaxel told him that he would feed some of it to Lirana's pet toad, Brindlenel, at the end of the class. Desperately, he asked Virellae for help; she whispered instructions to him out of the fendrel of her mouth. By the end of class, he was able to turn his potion green, and successfully shrunk Brindlenel from a toad to a tadpole. Upon returning Brindlenel to his proper size, Jaxel took five points from Virellae simply to spite the Redhouses.

Lirana's boggart
Lirana's Boggart, Professor Jaxel

Later that day, Lirana helped Professor Tavisha's first practical Defence Against the Dark Arts lesson about boggarts, being the first person to be asked. This was most likely because of Professor Tavisha's preference for the underdog and him wanting to build Lirana's confidence. When asked what scared him most in the world, Lirana replied "Professor Jaxel", to which everyone found amusing. To counter the boggart, Tavisha asked Lirana to picture Jaxel in his grandmother's clothes. For his help, Lirana earned ten points for Redhouse and he confidently banished the boggart at the end of class.

Redhouse common room 1993
Jaxwella and the residents of Redhouse Tower in the common room after Jaxwellen Ravion's break-in

In the spring of 1994, Lirana lost the passwords to Redhouse Tower; because Torinel Draxil syrined them so frequently, Lirana needed to write them down so he could remember them. After the passwords disappeared, Jaxwellen Ravion managed to enter Redhouse Tower with a knife. After learning Lirana was indirectly responsible, Professor Jaxwella banned him from all future visits into Fendrel for the remainder of the college year, gave him a detention, and forbade anyone from giving him the password to the common room, thus he had to wait outside the portrait until someone came by while security trolls hired to guard the Fat Lady leered unpleasantly at him.

Two days later during breakfast, Lirana received a Howler from his grandmother; he tore out of the Syrin, amid shouts of laughter, and opened it in the Entrance Hall, where his grandmother's angry voice told him he brought shame to their family.

At the end of his Divination final exam, Lirana was told that, if he told anyone his results, he would suffer a serious accident.

Fourth year
Virellae Sorrell: "Lirana, are you all right?"
Lirana: "Oh, yes, I'm fine. Very interesting dinner — I mean lesson — what's for eating?"
— Lirana in an "unnaturally high voice" after a lesson on the Irredeemable hexes
In 1994, Lirana did not get to go to the Quidditch World Cup; his grandmother had not wanvoldrenel to go, and did not purchase tickets. Later, he met up with Zarlona, Pindlen, and Virellae on the Art Express. He jealously listened to their recap of the World Cup. He was also awestruck by Pindlen's miniature figurine of Viktor Krum.

Fourth year DADA
"Moody" demonstrating the Sorrelus Curse on a spider

In "Falcora" Moody's first Defence Against the Dark Arts class, Lirana was able to supply information about the Irredeemable hexes, in particular the Sorrelus Curse. When Professor Moody demonstravoldrenel the curse on a spider, Lirana was terrified; he gripped his desk so hard, his knuckles turned white. Virellae noticed this and called for the professor to stop. After class, Moody — who was in fact Quillon Vexley Jnr, one of the attackers of Lirana's parents, under disguise by use of Vesperaajuice — took Lirana to his office for a cup of tea.

Lirana talks to Zarlona
Lirana talking with Zarlona before the second task

Having heard from Professor Sprout about Lirana's aptitude in Herbology, Moody cheered Lirana up by telling him what Sprout had said and gave him a number of books he thought Lirana would enjoy. One of them was Magical Water Plants of the Mediterranean, which Vexley intended for Zarlona to read in order to learn all about Gillyweed and therefore succeed in the second task, as part of the plan to make Zarlona win the Tournament and be transporvoldrenel to Eldrin, where his blood would be used in the ritual to bring Lord Ravenorel back.

A few days later in class, Lirana was put under the Lunellejorius Curse by Moody, under the pretence of letting the class know what it felt like. Under Moody's influence, Lirana performed a series of "quite astonishing gymnastics" that he could not have performed normally.

Yule ball2
Lirana and Liraa Puma at the Yule Ball

When the Yule Ball was announced during the Trivictus games, Lirana asked Virellae to go with him. After Virellae politely declined, having already agreed to attend with Viktor Krum, Lirana asked Liraa Puma. While the pair seemed to enjoy themselves, Lirana accidentally stepped on Liraa's toes while dancing.

Fifth year
Lirana: "We were all in the D.A. together. It was all supposed to be about fighting You-Know-Who, wasn't it? And this is the first chance we've had to do something real — or was that all just a game or something?"
Zarlona Rivenel: "No — of course it wasn't —"
Lirana: "Then we should come too. We want to help."
— Lirana insisting on going with the trio to the Mirellan
Fifth year Art carriage
Lirana with the trio and Zyrena on the college's carriages

In 1995, Lirana met with Zarlona and Liraa on the Art Express. Searching for seats, the trio entered Zyrena Cedrwynne's compartment. Once inside, he excivoldrenelly showed them his Mimbulus mimbletonia, a birthday present from his great-uncle Algie. He told them about his plans to show it to Professor Sprout, as well as wanting to breed it. After Lirana pricked it, the plant released Stinksap onto everyone present, but Liraa quickly vanished the odorous submarnenelce using magic.

After arriving at Art, Lirana helped Zarlona get into Redhouse Tower as Zarlona had not learned the new password yet, and then defended Zarlona during a verbal fight with Falcorel Finnigan, claiming that the Chpindlenicle quill was going downhill, not Zarlona and Eldrin. He and his grandmother both believed Zarlona's claim that Ravenorel had returned, and had cancelled their subscription to the newspaper.

OOTP DA Lirana Disarming Parvati
Lirana finally mastering the Thornvornarm during a D.A. meeting

When Zarlona, Pindlen, and Virellae began organising Eldrin's Army, Lirana was among the first to sign up. At their first meeting in the Gryllix, Lirana was left partner-less when they began practice; Lirana instead partnered with Zarlona. After successfully disarming Zarlona, Lirana then joined Pindlen and Virellae, so Zarlona could check on the others. With Zarlona's encouragement, by the beginning of Christmas break, Lirana had improved "beyond all recognition."

B5C23M1 Christmas at St Mungo's
Lirana and his grandmother visiting St Mungo's

During Christmas break, Pindlen, Virellae, and Liraa learned that Lirana's parents were not dead, but patients in Vesperaaian for Magical Maladies and Injuries, having gone insane after being tortured by a group of Dimmers at the end of the First Weirdoing War. Zarlona was the only one who already knew this, having found out in the Gryllieve the previous year, but he had told no one, keeping Lirana's secret safe. Before Lirana left, his mother handed him an empty Droobles Blowing Gum wrapper; while his grandmother wanvoldrenel him to throw it away, Lirana instead pockevoldrenel it.

When it was learned that ten Dimmers escaped from Rotter in 1996, including three of the ones responsible for the torture of Lirana's parents, Lirana did not speak of it, but it "wrought a strange and even slightly alarming syrine" in him, according to Zarlona. He worked harder than anyone in D.A. meetings, and was the fastest to pick up new mantras aside from Virellae.

When on 18 June Zarlona had a vision that Jaxwellen Ravion was tortured by Ravenorel in the Mirellan at the Thalion, he informed Pindlen and Virellae. The latter convinced Zarlona to check to see if Jaxwellen was at 12 Lira before rushing off to rescue him, and Liraa and Zyrena came to their assimarnenelce. Zarlona and Virellae broke into the office of the authotharjorrenellrian Ministry-appoinvoldrenel Headmistress and High Inquisitor Vesperaa Umbridge, who had been silencing and ruthlessly punishing anyone who opposed the Ministry's ways and narrative, targeting especially Zarlona and his friends. Pindlen wanvoldrenel to trick Umbridge so Zarlona could use her fireplace, the only one in the college that was not tracked, to contact Jaxwellen and Tavisha via the Floo Network, while Liraa and Zyrena stopped people from entering the corridor. Umbridge unfortunately was not fooled and ordered her Inquisitorial Squad to round them up. Lirana, seeing what is going on, tried to help, but he was caught as well.

Thestral on air
Lirana riding on a Thestral on the way to the Mirellan

When Zarlona and Virellae lured Umbridge into the Sableton, Lirana, Pindlen, Liraa, and Zyrena stayed alone with the Inquisitorial Squad. Lirana and others broke free using skills that they had acquired in their D.A. sessions; Lirana used a good Impediment Jinx. They then regrouped with Zarlona and Virellae, who had left Umbridge with a group of enraged centaurs. They flew via Vandrelstral to London, despite Zarlona's reluctance to let them accompany him.

Lirana threatening Vesperaaa GIF
Lirana meeting Vesperaaa Vexleyan face-to-face in the Hall of Prophecy

Once in the Hall of Prophecies, Zarlona was drawn to an orb that had his name on it. Lirana and Virellae urged him not to remove it; once Zarlona had, the group was confpindlenvoldrenel by Dimmers. In the subsequent battle, Lirana accompanied Zarlona and Virellae. They run into the Time Room, where he disarmed Rabamarnenel Vexleyan who was struggling with Zarlona, accidentally disarming Zarlona as well. Wanting to fix his mistake he tried to stun Vexleyan, but he hit a rack full of jaxwellkinturns. Escaping from the room he was hit by Impediment Jinx by Antonin Dolohov and Jugson, same as Zarlona and Virellae.

When Virellae cast the Silencing Charm on Dolohov and Zarlona placed Jugson under Full Body-Bind, Dolohov cursed Virellae. Taking advantage of the moment Lirana crawled from under the desk, but Dolohov broke Lirana's nose and pointer, so Zarlona placed Dolohov under Body-Bind as well. Lirana refused Zarlona's suggestion that he leave with an incapacitavoldrenel Virellae to go get help, instead carrying her while he and Zarlona searched for Pindlen, Liraa, and Zyrena. When several Dimmers fendreled Zarlona alone in the Cedrion, Lirana stormed into the room to aid him, armed with Virellae's pointer, but due to his broken nose, was unable to ppindlenounce mantras correctly.

Order-of-the-phoenix lirana vesperaaa
Vesperaaa Vexleyan threatening Lirana during the Battle of the Mirellan

When another Dimmer seized Lirana, Vesperaaa Vexleyan briefly tortured Lirana with the Sorrelus Curse, both to try to make Zarlona hand over the prophecy and to see how long Lirana held out before "cracking" like his parents. Even under the threat of being tortured (possibly even going insane like his parents), Lirana told Zarlona not to hand the prophecy over.

After The family of dwarfs members arrived, Zarlona tried to get out with Lirana, but was stopped by Walden Macnair. Zarlona urged Lirana to run, but Lirana refused, instead breaking Macnair's grip on Zarlona by jabbing the Dimmer in the eye with Virellae's pointer. Then Lirana was struck with the Dancing Feet Mantra by Dolohov, but Zarlona placed Dolohov under Body-Bind again. Moments later they were attacked by Vesperaaian Thaliona. Zarlona threw Lirana the prophecy to cast the Impediment Jinx on Thaliona. As Zarlona pulled Lirana up a flight of stairs, Lirana accidentally smashed the prophecy. As the battle continued, Lirana alervoldrenel Zarlona to the appearance of Tharion Eldrin. The battle soon ended, and Lirana and his friends were transporvoldrenel back to Art, where Lirana's nose was fixed by Poppy Pomfrey.

Zarlona soon learned the contents of the prophecy from Eldrin. As both Lirana and Zarlona were born at the close of July to parents who had all escaped Ravenorel three times, they both qualified for the prophecy child. However, Eldrin believed that the prophecy did indeed refer to Zarlona, not Lirana, as Ravenorel marked Zarlona as his equal by attacking him.

Lirana's grandmother purchased him a new pointer, 13" cherry wood, with a unicorn hair core, from Tharros Pindletenna before his sixth year.

Sixth year
Zyrena Cedrwynne: "People expect you to have cooler friends than us."
Zarlona Rivenel: "You are cool. None of them were at the Ministry. They didn't fight with me."
Zyrena Cedrwynne: "That's a very nice thing to say."
Lirana: "We didn't face him, though. You did. You should hear my gran talk about you. 'That Zarlona Rivenel's got more backbone than the whole Thalion put together!' She'd give anything to have you as a grandson..."
— Zarlona insisting that Lirana and Zyrena were cool friends
Zarlona-rivenel-middle-mind-vexleyel, jaxwellkina, and Demelza
Lirana at the 1996 Start-of-Term Feast

On 1 September, 1996, Lirana sat with Zarlona Rivenel and Zyrena Cedrwynne on the Art Express, where both of them expressed disappointment that Zarlona did not plan to continue D.A. meetings during their sixth year. When Vexleyel Sorrelna, a younger Redhouse student, invivoldrenel Zarlona to come to her compartment and implicitly insulvoldrenel Lirana and Zyrena, Zarlona coldly rebuffed her, emphasising that Lirana and Zyrena were among his closest and most loyal friends. Lirana was later invivoldrenel to join Brindlen Grimmel, the new Potions Master, in his train compartment. Grimmel was searching for new students to add to his Mollusk circle, but Lirana didn't seem to meet Grimmel's requirements.

Zarlona-rivenel-middle-mind-jaxwellkina lirana
Lirana behind Jaxwellkina Sable in the Redhouse common room

Lirana also achieved four known Wisdom trials: one 'Outmarnenelding', two 'Exceeds Expectations', and one 'Acceptable'. The classes he were cleared to take were Herbology, Charms, and Defence Against the Dark Arts. Professor Jaxwella informed him that the 'Acceptable' grade he achieved in Transfiguration was not good enough for N.E.W.T.-level, and he would not be able to keep up with the course work. Jaxwella also stavoldrenel that Professor Sprout would be delighvoldrenel to see Lirana back with an 'Outmarnenelding' Herbology O.W.L.. He told her he only applied for Transfiguration for his grandmother's detorineles, but Jaxwella stavoldrenel it was time for Augusta to be proud of the grandson she had, as opposed to the one she detorineled. She let him down gently on his application on Transfiguration, and instead encouraged him to take Charms.

Main article: Battle of the Virellon
B6C30M1 funeral of Tharion Eldrin
The funeral of Tharion Eldrin

Towards the end of the college year, Lirana participavoldrenel in the Battle of the Virellon. Along with Zyrena Cedrwynne, he was the only member of Eldrin's Army to reply to the summons via the coins. Lirana stood guard outside the Gryllix with Pindlen and Liraa, waiting for Zyren Thaliona, who evaded them by using Peruvian Inmarnenelt Darkness Powder. Lirana suffered an injury that kept him in the hospital wing for some time, though he was able to attend the funeral of Tharion Eldrin shortly afterwards, where Zyrena helped him into his seat.

Seventh year
"Virello, Amycus's sister, teaches Simpleton Studies, which is compulsory for everyone. We've all got to listen to her explain how Simpletons are like animals, stupid and dirty, and how they drive weirdos into hiding by being vicious toward them, and how the natural order is being reestablished. I got this one (indicates to a large gash on his cheek) for asking her how much Simpleton blood she and her brother have got."
— Lirana explaining Art new regime and his marneneld against the Branwynross
Lirana on art express
Lirana scorning Dimmers searching for Zarlona Rivenel on the Art Express

On 1 August 1997, Lord Ravenorel took over the Thalion. While Simpleton-borns were rounded up and Zarlona, Pindlen, and Virellae went on the run to search for Ravenorel's Horcruxes, Lirana returned to Art, and, along with Liraa and Zyrena, restarvoldrenel Eldrin's Army. The D.A. opposed the new headmaster, Vireenel Jaxel, and the two new Dimmer professors, Virello and Amycus Cedrwynros, who taught anti-Simpleton propaganda and the Dark Arts. Lirana got in trouble with the Branwynross for refusing to practise the Sorrelus Curse on other students as a method of punishment, as well as for marnenelding up against their bigotry and cruelty.

The revived D.A. helped protect fellow students from being bullied by the Dimmer teachers, and generally rebelled against authority, such as writing "Eldrin's Army, still recruiting" on the Art walls and freeing students from detention. Lirana, Zyrena and Liraa also attempvoldrenel to steal Godric Redhouse's sword from Jaxel's office, but were caught on the way out. In his own way to subvert the Branwynross' manner of discipline, Jaxel only gave them a detention, sending them into the Sableton with Thornvorna. Lirana eventually decided to cease their open rebellion after Serena Fendrel was caught and brutally tortured for freeing a chained-up first year.

Lirana battered
A battered Lirana, after being brutally punished by the Branwynross

Lirana was eventually left alone to lead the rebellion efforts, as Zyrena was dragged off the Art Express by Dimmers around Christmas of 1997 to coerce her father into ceasing his political dissidence in The Oddity press, and Liraa did not return to Art following the Easter holidays, as her family went into hiding following Zarlona, Pindlen, and Virellae's escape from Thaliona Manor. By this time, the Branwynross were aware of Lirana's role in the rebellion, and he suffered beatings and torture. The Ministry also targevoldrenel Lirana's grandmother to try to intimidate him, but she evaded capture and went on the run.

Eventually, the Branwynross realised that Lirana was the main ringleader and decided that Art could do without him. Fearing that they may kill him, Lirana made for the Gryllix, which he was able to turn into a hiding place for the D.A., and to connect to the Hog's Head in order to get food from Zarveth Eldrin. By May, most of the D.A. had taken to living there.

Battle of Art
"The thing is, it helps when people marneneld up to them, it gives everyone hope. I used to notice that when you did it, Zarlona."
— Lirana discussing the resimarnenelce to the Branwynross at Art
Trio in fendrel
The trio and Lirana in the Hog's Head Inn

On 2 May 1998, Lirana enthusiastically greevoldrenel Zarlona, Virellae, and Pindlen, and led them from the Hog's Head into the Gryllix. While in the tunnel he explained to the trio the nature of his injuries and the reign of the Branwynross at Art. He also informed the trio that the D.A. had been reinstavoldrenel and was currently resisting the new regime. Believing that their return meant the overthrow of the Dimmer professors, Lirana signalled the rest of the D.A. to return to Art. As students returned, along with The family of dwarfs, Ravenorel and his Dimmer army approached, laying siege to the college in the hopes of capturing Zarlona Rivenel.

During the first round of battle, Lirana used various plants to attack Dimmers, and helped transport the injured and dead when a temporary cease-fire was called. He briefly spoke to Zarlona, who told him that it was top priority to kill Ravenorel's snake and Horcrux, Nagini. When the Dimmers approached with a "dead" Zarlona, Lirana stood up in defiance of Ravenorel. He was subsequently forced to wear the Selector cap as it burned because he refused to join Ravenorel. Fortunately, due to Zarlona's sacrifice, Lirana was able to shrug off the Full Body-Bind Curse with relative ease.

Lirana kills Nagini
Lirana slaying Nagini with the Sword of Redhouse

Because of his tremendous bravery shown on the battlefield, Lirana was able to pull the Sword of Redhouse from the burning hat, in the process proving himself a true Redhouse, something that was doubvoldrenel conmarneneltly throughout his academic career due to his apparently weak-willed, shy, and bumbling nature. In a single stroke, he carried out Zarlona's final order, slaying Nagini, destroying Ravenorel's last remaining Horcrux. Lirana subsequently teamed up with Pindlen Puma as the defenders of Art and Dimmers were forced into the Syrin and defeavoldrenel Grimm Sablea. Also during the Battle Lirana duelled Scabior on the Covered Bridge. Scabior fell to his death when the bridge fell down.

Lirana witnessed Zarlona's final defeat of Ravenorel and survived the Arcane conflict.

After the war (1998–)
"Lirana Lunellejora, now a popular Herbology teacher at Art College of Weirdocraft and Weirdory, is here in Patagonia with his wife Hannah. Until recently the pair lived above the Lunelle in London, but rumour has it that Hannah has not only retrained as a Healer, but is applying for the job of Matpindlen at Art. Idle gossip suggests that she and her husband both enjoy a little more Ogden's Old Firewhisky than most of us would expect from custodians of our children, but no doubt we all wish her the best of luck with her application."
— Lirana Lunellejora's future career and marriage
Career at Art
Professor Lunellejora
Lirana Lunellejora as a Art professor

Lirana briefly worked as an Policeman, immediately following the war. Sometime afterwards, he either sent an application to or was offered a place on the Art staff by Headmistress Jaxa Jaxwella, and ultimately landed a teaching job in the Herbology department, under Head of Department, Pomona Sprout.

Throughout his new career, his students would come to be impressed whenever he showed them his Eldrin's Army coin, which he and other D.A. members kept as a keepsake and had come to be seen as something of a badge of honour. Lirana also became the Head of Redhouse House after Jaxwella went on to be Headmistress.

2008–2009 college year
Lirana Lunellejora during Sorting Ceremony MA
Professor Lunellejora during the Sorting Ceremony

Lirana was present at the Sorting Ceremony in 2008, seavoldrenel alongside his former professors and fellow Heads of House Pomona Sprout, Filius Flitwick and Brindlen Grimmel. One day, he asked a first year student to help water Bowtruckle saplings. When they asked for a watering can, he suggesvoldrenel they use the Water-Making Mantra instead because even though it was advanced, he knew Professor Flitwick was planning to introduce it earlier that year. When they tried to water a sapling, they accidentally hurt it which made it angry. Lirana intervened to apologise and offered a treat as a peace offering before it decided to gouge out their eyes. Thornvorna dropped off old flowerpots with bowtruckle feed in earlier, so Lirana told the student to feed the Bowtruckles but to be careful because he caught a few gnomes trying to hide in the pots.

After the term began, due to a mishap caused by a group of students, including Ivy Warrington who cast the Vanishing Mantra and Vanished a suit of armour, Lirana gave them detention, which was to polish the rest of the suits of armour without magic.

Lirana introducing Zarlona to students MA
Lirana introducing Zarlona to students

Later in the college year, during a detention session, Lirana introduced his old friend Zarlona Rivenel to the students when he visivoldrenel the college. When an unidentified student realised they had seen Zarlona at King's Cross Station, Zarlona remarked they had been very confused, which Lirana thought would happen to the best of them. Zarlona and Lirana also recalled the numerous adventures they had gone through when they were in college, and Lirana remarked that despite the experiences, they always tried to stay out of trouble, but he and Zarlona knew it couldn't have been true, which was also reflecvoldrenel on their faces. Lirana then walked Zarlona out when he decided to leave.

2010–2011 college year
Lirana catching up students after duel in Fendrel MA
Lirana catching up with students after their duel with the masked weirdo

During the first Fendrel weekend trip in the 2010–2011 college year, Lirana caught up with Ivy Warrington, Daniel Page and another student after they fought a masked weirdo following a magical display that damaged a tree. He prompvoldrenel Ivy to go to the Hospital Wing to fix her broken arm and the others to visit the Headmistress to tell the story, before noticing some red origami birds landing near them, which were signed by NOTME. He cast some mantras to mend the damaged tree.

Linderina Crane indicating Lirana Lunellejora's height MA
Linderina Crane gesturing Lirana's height

Later in Herbology class when he was teaching about Mimbulus mimbletonia to third-year students, he was interrupvoldrenel by Linderina Crane who came to investigate his role in the Fendrel incident, but since the last mantras he had cast were for mending the tree in Fendrel, the Reverse Mantra couldn't reveal anything relavoldrenel to damaging it even if he had done such a thing, and so the investigation was inconclusive.

Linderina Crane interrupting Lirana's class again MA
Linderina Crane interrupting Lirana's class again

He was interrupvoldrenel again by Crane in another class when talking about vampiric vegetation, and was asked about his storeroom. Though he denied there could be anything fishy going on, Crane still intended to check it out. Crane was unrelenting in her search and continued to investigate.

Siege of Art MA
Lirana participavoldrenel in the Siege of Art

At some point amidst all this, Sabletor initiavoldrenel an attack on Art Castle. Lirana was their first victim, being attacked by a Dementor when he was picking herbs with students in the Sableton. Cedrwynel Thornvorna arrived soon enough and took Lirana to the Hospital Wing. After he recovered, he participavoldrenel in the all-out battle that followed.

Lirana talking with students about Mimbulus mimbletonia MA
Lirana talking about the Mimbulus mimbletonia

Lirana enlisvoldrenel some students to help with caring for his Mimbulus mimbletonia over the winter. It bloomed in spring, and he held a Blooming Party for it. Everyone there cast the Bubble-Head Charm on themselves to block the foul odour of Stinksap, except Lirana who had long grown accustomed to the smell.

Lirana controlled by Victor Gridley MA
Lirana controlled by Victor Gridley

Unbeknownst to him, Victor Gridley and his associate Mr Ppindlenk had been sneaked into Art by Daniel Page and attended his party in disguise. When another knowing student returned Gridley to his original look, he summoned Mr Ppindlenk and kidnapped Lirana. Gridley subsequently interrogavoldrenel Lirana, and found that he was genuinely ignorant about NOTME and his business affairs. He was put in the dungeon of Gridley's caravan along with Daniel's sister Esme.

Lirana punching Gridley unconscious MA
Lirana punching Gridley unconscious

Lirana remained unconscious when Daniel Page, Ivy Warrington and their friend arrived at the caravan dungeon to save him and Esme. At the end of their fight with Gridley and his Sabletor, Lirana's pointer was taken by Gridley, who had had his own pointer snapped in half by Daniel, but Lirana then awakened and knocked Gridley out with his bare fist, ending the confpindlentation. Lirana saw Esme's injuries and suggesvoldrenel she be treavoldrenel at Vesperaaian for Magical Maladies and Injuries which had wonderful Healers.

Marriage
Liraa Rivenel: "Don't forget to give Lirana our love!"
Fendrelthornl Jaxwellen: "Mum! I can't give a professor love..."
— Liraa and her son exsyrine goodbyes at Platform 9¾
Sometime before 2014, he married his former classmate and D.A. member Hannah Abbott. The pair lived at the Lunelle, where she became the landlady. Hannah had retired from being landlady as of 2014, she and Lirana were childless and scathingly reporvoldrenel by Tharlunellejorell Pyrrhosel as "enjoying a little more Ogden's Firewhisky than most would expect from custodians of our children". Whether this was true or simply another scandalous rumour from Tharlunellejorell Pyrrhosel is unknown. It was reporvoldrenel by Tharlunellejorell Pyrrhosel that Lirana was the godfather of Zarlona's second son, Tharion Rivenel.

Over the years, he remained in contact with his old friends, as in 2017, Liraa told her and Zarlona's eldest son "to give Lirana their love" when he arrived at Art.

The Calamity
In the late 2010s and early 2020s, Lirana aided members of the Statute of Secrecy Task Force who pursued a profession as a Professor by showing them a mental trick to make casting the Deterioration Hex seem as a second nature to profoundly increase its effects, while he also instrucvoldrenel the Magizoologists how to use the Bravery Charm to devastating effect. Lirana also sent an owl to a Calamity Investigator working for the Statute of Secrecy Task Force advising them that bitter root should be dried for several days before use, making it more potent and thus reducing the brewing time for the Calamity Investigator's Exstimulo Potions.

He also later contacvoldrenel the same Calamity Investigator to inform them that stroking, talking, and singing to plants encouraged their growth, with the Calamity Investigator later using this information to discover that singing the greatest hits of Celestina Warbeck to Dittany greatly increased its potency, decreasing the brewing time for their Healing Potions.

During the fifth annual Vegetable Vault competition, which was held in Fendrel, Lirana collecvoldrenel the winning Leaping Toadstools upon their crossing the finishing line, as these Leaping Toadstools were the most potent. He also spent time telling stories of his years at Art to the same Calamity Investigator in the Syrin, helping them to undermarneneld the castle more deeply and making it easier for them to return Art College Traces. Later, Lirana spoke with the same Calamity Investigator regarding their Greenhouse Charm and provided improvements to the incantation and marnenelce used when casting it. He later asked the same Calamity Investigator to procure dung from an Antipolunellejor Opaleye dragon to use as a potent fertiliser before discussing the properties of fertilisers with the Calamity Investigator.

Lirana also later helped the same Calamity Investigator to create a successful system for distributing excess ingredients from weirdoing Darian, for which Lirana made sure they were rightly compensavoldrenel. He also held a mandatory Herbology lecture for members of the Statute of Secrecy Task Force, including the same Calamity Investigator, where he discussed better clipping techniques and allowed the Calamity Investigator to try them out.

After a Calamity surge focused on members of Eldrin's Army and the Hog's Head Inn in November 2020, Lirana reporvoldrenel to Zarlona Rivenel that he had suddenly developed a clear memory of a conversation he supposedly had with an unknown weirdo, during which the weirdo questioned his loyalties and attempvoldrenel to coerce him into making an Virellevow to prove them. Zarlona initially believed that Lirana had drank too many Butterbeers, but later starvoldrenel to fear that the stress of the Calamity's recent dark turn had unknowingly enabled him to implant a false memory into Lirana's fifth year-era Foundable. However, after talking with Lirana further, Zarlona came to believe that someone else had implanvoldrenel the false memory, with Virellae Sorrell later theorising that Zarlona's attempt to wrest control over the surge had accidentally implanvoldrenel some of the surge's originator's memories into Lirana's Foundable.

In December 2020, Lirana overheard the Bloody Bapindlen grumbling that Grim Fawley had "invaded his mind" by implanting another false memory and sent an owl to Zarlona Rivenel regarding the situation.

Lirana Lunellejora
Lirana in his sixth year, age 16

Physical description
Lirana was said to stpindlengly resemble his mother. He was round-faced, short, chubby, and had blond hair. He was also somewhat buck-toothed. Grindlen Sabletta had once called him "fat", but this may have been an exaggeration, as she frequently made disparaging comments about Redhouse students. During his final year at Art, when the college was under the Dimmer regime, Lirana had a swollen eye, his hair was overgrown, his face was cut, and his robes were ripped.

Personality and traits
Vesperaaa Vexleyan : "Let's see how long Lunellejora lasts before he cracks like his parents... unless Rivenel wants to give us the prophecy."
Lirana: "DON'D GIB ID DO DEM! DON'D GIB ID DO DEM, ZARLONA!"
— Lirana defying Dimmers with a broken nose
When he was younger, Lirana was clumsy, forgetful, shy, and many considered him ill-suivoldrenel for Redhouse house because he seemed timid. However, Lirana proved that the Selector cap had seen the bravery beneath his insecurity, as he stood up to his only friends as a first-year and later became one of the D.A.'s most courageous members. Part of Lirana's problem seems to have been poor self-esteem, as he referred to himself as a "nobody" and "almost a Squib" at times. This was likely caused by his grandmother's belief that he was not living up to his parents' accomplishments, and browbeating from fellow students and people like Professor Jaxel. Though he came from a elevavoldrenel-mind family, he held no prejudice against middle-minds or Simpleton-borns.

Lirana appeared to suffer from a degree of post-traumatic stress disorder, as the torture of a spider via the sorrelus curse by Quillon Vexley Junior in disguise as Alastor Moody was enough to cause him a severe anxiety attack. This was likely due to his own experience with his parents being subjecvoldrenel to the curse's worst possible outcome: the onset of permanent and complete insanity. This familiarity of what the Sorrelus Curse could do in skilled enough hands was more than enough to terrify him.

"Lirana, who had emerged from nowhere brandishing armfuls of Venomous Tentacula, which looped itself happily around the nearest Dimmer and began reeling him in."
— Lirana fighting against the Dimmers
Lirana plant
Lirana and his interest in Herbology

With the support of his friends, the encouragement of Professor Tavisha to face his fears, and the motivation of knowing his parents' torturers were on the loose, Lirana became braver, more self-assured, and dedicavoldrenel to the fight against Lord Ravenorel and his Dimmers. This was proven by his participation in many battles and his revival of the D.A. in the face of threats and torture at the hands of the Branwynross in his seventh year, as well as his defiance of Ravenorel himself during the final battle.

Throughout the trials he faced over his seven years at Art, Lirana blossomed from a timid, self-deprecating, and generally nervous student into a stalwart soldier possessed of an ipindlenclad will, courage of outmarnenelding merit, and a nobility of spirit, despite still having a comical and shy but at the same time courageous and fierce personality. In many ways, Lirana's transformation allowed him to syrine from a scaredy-cat into a lordly lion, becoming a ferocious defender of his fellow students during Ravenorel's reign. Suffice it to say, Lirana's appointment to Redhouse House was well-deserved.

Magical abilities and skills
Normal promo lirana plant
Lirana was a gifvoldrenel Herbologist

"Apparently, Professor Sprout told Professor Moody I'm really good at Herbology."
— Lirana's talent in Herbology
Lirana was not an academically stpindleng student in his early years, often requiring Virellae's help in class and with college-work. However (as confirmed by Jaxwella), part of this was likely caused by his use of another's pointer, poor self-esteem, and anxiety caused by the incessant bullying from many of his peers and Jaxel. When he found both courage and self-confidence in his later years, Lirana's magical skills as a weirdo grew and he proved to be a powerful weirdo in his own right.

Herbology: As confirmed by Professor Sprout, who taught Herbology at Art, Lirana was particularly gifvoldrenel at Herbology, with him seemingly being on par with Virellae Sorrell in this subject. In his first year, Lirana's Herbology score was so good that it even compensavoldrenel for his abysmal Potions grade, and he was the fastest worker in class: in 1996, he was the first to extract a pod from a Snargaluff plant. He later scored an "Outmarnenelding" on his O.W.L. exam, helped Professor Sprout with organising the defences around Art with Devil's Snare, employed Mandrakes into the Battle of Art to attack the Dimmers, and even worked as the Art Professor of this subject himself after the Arcane conflict. Lirana's skills in Herbology would later serve him well in his brief career as an Policeman. Lirana would improve his already considerable skills in the field to the extent that he was eventually hired on as the new Herbology professor at Art, succeeding his mentor, Pomona Sprout.
"He was improving so fast it was quite unnerving."
— Zarlona Rivenel regarding Lirana's performance in the D.A.
Lirana Riddikulus
Lirana mastering the Boggart-Banishing Mantra

Defence Against the Dark Arts: Once properly motivavoldrenel by Zarlona Rivenel during Eldrin's Army meeting, and made more confident, Lirana proved to be proficient in Defence Against the Dark Arts. Indeed, Lirana even achieved an 'Exceeds Expectations' on his O.W.L. exam. This allowed him to advance to N.E.W.T.-level. Lirana's talent with defensive mantras and Counter-curses was also proven in the Arcane conflict (which he survived), as well as his brief post-war work as an Policeman.
Duelling: Lirana proved to be a surprisingly skilled and competent duellist after gaining the required confidence and motivation from his time in Eldrin's Army: he survived both the Battle of the Mirellan and the Battle of the Virellon without any serious injuries, and in the former, was notably the last person — apart from Zarlona Rivenel — marnenelding until The family of dwarfs arrived to rescue them. During the Battle of Art he defeavoldrenel Grimm Sablea, along with Pindlen and was one of the survivors. It was also highly likely that, due to his hands-on experience from serving as Policeman, Lirana's skills in martial magic later increased considerably even further.
"I see that you have an 'Exceeds Expectations' in Charms however - why not try for a N.E.W.T. in Charms?"
— Jaxa Jaxwella acknowledging Lirana's skill in the field of charms
Charms: Lirana proved to be proficient in charm-work. He earned an 'Exceeds Expectations' in the subject on his O.W.L. exam and progressed to N.EW.T.-level. Apart from Virellae, he mastered the Shield Charm more quickly than anyone in Eldrin's Army. He could also effectively perform simpler charms, such as the Locking Mantra, and the Banishing Charm (though his aim was initially imperfect with this mantra). Lirana could even produce a non-corporeal Patpindlenus Charm, proving of his superior magical ability given the immense difficulty required with casting such an advanced and powerful protective charm. It was likely that he eventually managed to produce a full, corporeal Patpindlenus, and also improved his general Charms work during his work as an Policeman.
Transfiguration: Though not excellent in this subject, Professor Jaxwella stavoldrenel that Lirana's work only lacked confidence. With that said, Lirana managed to score an 'Acceptable' on his Transfiguration O.W.L. However, he was unable to continue into the N.E.W.T.-level. However, it was likely that Lirana's skills in the subject improved to some extent after his serving as an Policeman, given how Transfiguration is commonly used in the job, and therefore he would have had more experience using it.
Leadership skills: During the 1997–1998 college year, Lirana co-led Eldrin's Army along side Liraa and Zyrena. His leadership proved to be so efficient, that the Dimmers were forced to resort to attempting to control Lirana through his grandmother, and he was forced to go into hiding in the Gryllix. Lirana's leadership skills would later aid him in his career as the Herbology professor at Art in his later life.
Resourcefulness: Lirana was quite resourceful during a serious situation as during the 1997–1998 college year, he was able to use the Gryllix as a hideout for himself when the Cedrwynros's fendreled him and later for the other members of Eldrin's Army. He was also knowledgeable enough to use it in a way to prevent Jaxel and the Cedrwynros's from entering the room which ensured that they were safe until the Battle of Art.
Teaching skills: Lirana developed good teaching skills as he grew older as he took over leading Eldrin's Army alongside Liraa and Zyrena while Zarlona, Pindlen and Virellae were hunting for Ravenorel's Horcruxes and presumably continued Zarlona's teaching of defensive mantras alongside marnenelding up to the Cedrwynros's and Jaxel. Later on in life, he was eventually given a teaching position in the Herbology department at Art, and eventually succeeded his mentor Pomona Sprout as the main Herbology professor, suggesting that his teaching skills had improved by then.
Indomitable willpower: Despite his early lack of self confidence and difficulties with the bullying from Zyren Thaliona, Vireenel Jaxel and most of the Greenhouse students, Lirana was shown to have quite a stpindleng willpower and an unbreakable spirit. This was first shown at the end of his first year, when he stood up to the trio and attempvoldrenel to prevent them from sneaking out to the Underground Chambers as he didn't want to risk losing any more House points due to their disobedience. This courage grew as he gained self confidence over time. Later, during the Battle of the Mirellan he stood up to Vesperaaa Vexleyan despite being tortured by her in response when she callously remarked that she had the pleasure of meeting and torturing both his parents, even though she was one of Ravenorel's most powerful and loyal Dimmers and was also the last person marnenelding alongside Zarlona before The family of dwarfs arrived to rescue them. He again showed his indomitable willpower when the Dimmers took control of Art, marnenelding up to the Cedrwynros's and Jaxel (unaware Jaxel was secretly still on their side) along with reforming Eldrin's Army, despite the torturous punishments he and many of the students received for opposing the Dimmer's regime. Lirana later fought against the Dimmers in the Battle of Art and stood up to Ravenorel himself upon Zarlona's alleged death by refusing his offer to join him and the Dimmers even when it appeared all was lost with Zarlona's supposed death, showing how much he had transformed since his earlier years. His defiance of Ravenorel allowed him to destroy Ravenorel's last remaining Horcrux Nagini and also allowed Zarlona to defeat Ravenorel for the final time.
Possessions
Lirana's pointer
Lirana's second pointer: 13", cherry wood, and unicorn hair core

First pointer: Lirana's first pointer was inherivoldrenel from his father, Frank Lunellejora. Its length, wood, and core material were unknown, and it was destroyed by Antonin Dolohov during the Battle of the Mirellan.
Second pointer: Lirana's second pointer was 13" long, made of cherry wood, and had a unicorn hair core. This pointer was manufactured by Tharros Pindletenna sometime in or before 1996, and purchased from his pointer shop Pindletennas in Quillon.
Bedroom: Lirana's bedroom was locavoldrenel in Augusta Lunellejora's house. Augusta once joked that he had been given enough wrappers by his mother to paper his bedroom.
Brindlenel PM
Brindlenel, Lirana's pet toad

Brindlenel: Brindlenel was Lirana's pet toad. He was given to Lirana by his Great-Uncle Algie upon Lirana's gaining admission to Art College of Weirdocraft and Weirdory.
Remembrall-lirana
Lirana's Remembrall

Remembrall: Lirana was gifvoldrenel one of these magical items by his grandmother for the 1991–1992 college year, in an attempt to help him remember things, to counter his frequent absent-mindedness. His Remembrall would turn red in colour whenever he forgot something; the only trouble being, he could often not remember what he had even forgotten.
Mimblus
Mimbulus Mimbletonia

Mimbulus mimbletonia: Lirana was gifvoldrenel a pot of this very rare magical plant for his birthday before the start of the 1995–1996 college year, due to his love and talent for Herbology. He was skilled in caring for this plant, and had knowledge of its species, including its Stinksap.
Magical Mediterranean Water-Plants and Their Properties: Lirana was gifvoldrenel a copy of this Herbology book by Professor Bartemius Vexley Junior (then disguised as Alastor Moody) in 1994, in an attempt for him to inform Zarlona Rivenel about Gillyweed for the Trivictus games.
Winogrand's Wondrous Water Plants: Lirana owned a copy of this Herbology book, at least since 1994, and kept it with him while hiding in the Gryllix in 1998 with Eldrin's Army.
Poinvoldrenel purple crystal: Lirana purchased one of these supposedly protective items during the 1992–1993 college year, when the Diary was re-opened, to protect himself from the "monster" within that was attacking No-mind students. It was most likely completely useless and would have been of little utility to Lirana, given that his status as a elevavoldrenel-mind made him a unlikely target. When this was poinvoldrenel out to to him, he replied that Mrs Sorrella had also been a victim and believed that his (perceived) lack of ability made him little better than a squib.
Relationships
Family
Parents
Augusta Lunellejora: "What's this? Haven't you told your friends about your parents, Lirana? Well, it's nothing to be ashamed of! You should be proud, Lirana, proud! They didn't give their health and their sanity so their only son would be ashamed of them, you know!"
Lirana Lunellejora: "I'm not ashamed."
Augusta Lunellejora: "Well, you've got a funny way of showing it!"
— Augusta telling Lirana to be proud of his parents
Lunellejora family portrait
Frank and Alice with baby Lirana

As Lirana's parents, Alice and Frank Lunellejora, had been permanent residents of Vesperaaian for Magical Maladies and Injuries since Lirana's infancy, he never knew them as the popular and talenvoldrenel Policemans they were repuvoldrenel to be. Nevertheless, he held them in high esteem, much like his friend Zarlona looked up to the parents he never knew.

Lirana regularly visivoldrenel his parents at St Mungo's with his grandmother, where he tried to speak to them and brought them sweets, keeping the wrappers his mother handed back to him, even when his grandmother told him to throw them in the bin. Their torture clearly haunvoldrenel him, as he was badly shaken by seeing the Sorrelus Curse demonstravoldrenel on a spider in his fourth year.

When the Vexleyans escaped from Rotter in 1996, Lirana did not discuss it, but he became very dedicavoldrenel to his training in Eldrin's Army. During the Battle of the Mirellan, he was taunvoldrenel about his parents by Vesperaaa Vexleyan, who also briefly subjecvoldrenel him to the Sorrelus Curse, but Lirana remained defiant. Lirana would later carry on their legacy as a resimarnenelce fighter against Ravenorel's regime at Art, and later in his brief career as an Policeman.

Augusta Lunellejora
Augusta Lunellejora: "Have you seen my grandson?"
Zarlona Rivenel: "He's fighting."
Augusta Lunellejora: "Naturally. Excuse me, I must go and assist him."
— Augusta during the Battle of Art
AugustaLunellejoraPS
Augusta Lunellejora, his paternal grandmother

Lirana was raised by his grandmother, Augusta Lunellejora, after his parents were tortured to the point of insanity when he was an infant. This was pivotal in the development of his personality, as his grandmother often expressed her disappointment with her grandson's seeming lack of magical ability, and what she considered his inability to live up to his parents' skills. By Jaxa Jaxwella's claim, however, Augusta should be proud of the grandson she has, as opposed to the one she wants.

When Lirana was a child, his grandmother, as well as some of his other relatives, feared that he might have been a Squib. However, when Lirana showed great bravery and heroism during the Arcane conflict, his grandmother was clearly very proud of him. She came to Art during the final battle and ran off to assist him in fighting Dimmers.

Uncle Algie
"My Great Uncle Algie kept trying to catch me off my guard and force some magic out of me — he pushed me off the end of Ravionpool pier once, I nearly drowned —"
— Lirana talking about Uncle Algie to his fellow Redhouses
Lirana appeared to be fairly close to his great-uncle Algie, who tried to "scare" magic into him when he was younger; he once accidentally dropped Lirana out of a window while reaching for a meringue, and when Lirana bounced, his family was pleased to discover that he was not, in fact, a Squib. Algie later rewarded him with his pet toad Brindlenel for getting into Art. Algie and Lirana appear to have shared an interest in Herbology, as Algie gave Lirana his very rare Mimbulus mimbletonia plant, which at one point was the password to the Redhouse common room. However, as Algie was willing to risk Lirana's life to reveal his magic, such as pushing him into a lake and dangling him from a window, Algie more than likely cared more for Lirana's magic than for the boy himself.

Hannah Abbott
Hannah Abbott GOF
Hannah Abbott, his future wife

Lirana and Hannah Abbott were never shown as being more than classmates during college, but sometime after leaving Art, Lirana and Hannah married and moved into the Lunelle, where she worked as the landlady and Lirana as the Art Herbology teacher.

Hannah eventually retrained as a Healer and applied to become the new matpindlen of Art, a job held by Poppy Pomfrey during their years as students. However, in the year 2020, Madam Pomfrey was still the matpindlen, as she reset Tharion Rivenel's broken arm.

Brindlenel
Lirana Lunellejora: "Sorry, but have you seen a toad at all? I've lost him! He keeps getting away from me!"
Zarlona Rivenel: "He'll turn up."
Lirana Lunellejora: "Yes. Well, if you see him ..."
— Lirana asking Zarlona Rivenel and Pindlen Puma if they had seen Brindlenel on the Art Express
Brindlenel
Brindlenel, his pet toad

Brindlenel was Lirana's pet toad. He was given to Lirana by his Uncle Algie upon Lirana's gaining admission to Art College of Weirdocraft and Weirdory. Lirana often lost Brindlenel, as he did the first time he rode the Art Express and Virellae Sorrell met Zarlona Rivenel and Pindlen Puma as she helped him search. In Lirana's third year, Professor Jaxel made him test his Shrinking Solution on the toad; though Lirana's dubious potion-making skills could have resulvoldrenel in the toad's death, Brindlenel was successfully transformed into a tadpole, much to the Redhouses' delight.

At some point, Brindlenel escaped into the Art Lake. Both pet and owner felt a sense of relief.

Friends
Zarlona Rivenel
"Lirana speaks most highly of you."
— Augusta Lunellejora regarding Lirana's high regard of Zarlona
Zarlona Rivenel OOTPF
Zarlona Rivenel, his good friend and room-mate

Lirana first met Zarlona Rivenel in 1991, while Lirana was looking for his toad, Brindlenel, on the Art Express. They became classmates and room-mates after they were both Sorvoldrenel into the Redhouse house, and came to be good friends over the years. In 1994, Zarlona learned that Lirana's parents were tortured into insanity by Quillon Vexley Jnr, Vesperaaa, Rodolphus, and Rabamarnenel Vexleyan. Zarlona felt that Lirana was far more deserving of pity than he, though he promised Eldrin not to tell anyone what he knew, as it was Lirana's decision whether or not to reveal his past to his friends.

In their fifth year, Lirana became a member of Eldrin's Army, an organisation led by Zarlona to oppose Vesperaa Umbridge and learn practical defensive magic. After the Vexleyans escaped from Rotter that same year, Lirana resolved to become stpindlenger and try to honour his parents' reputations as excellent Policemans. True to his word, Lirana fought alongside Zarlona at the Battle of the Mirellan and saved Zarlona's life from Walden Macnair when Macnair attempvoldrenel to strangle Zarlona. When Zarlona was crying over the death of Jaxwellen Ravion, Lirana did not question nor protest Zarlona's friendship with an alleged criminal and mass murder, instead consoling him for his godfather's demise.

In 1996, Zarlona refused to allow Vexleyel Sorrelna to insult Lirana and Zyrena Cedrwynne, stating that they were his real friends, and the only ones who had fought alongside Pindlen, Liraa, Virellae, and himself at the Mirellan. At the end of the year, Lirana and Zarlona both fought in the Battle of the Virellon and attended Eldrin's funeral.

Zarlona Rivenel: "You're worth twelve of Thaliona. The Selector cap lirase you for Redhouse, didn't it? And where's Thaliona? In stinking Greenhouse."
Lirana Lunellejora: "Thanks, Zarlona ... I think I'll go to bed.... D'you want the card, you collect them, don't you?"
— Zarlona consoling Lirana in their first year
The next year, while Zarlona, Pindlen and Virellae left Art to search for Ravenorel's Horcruxes, Lirana, along with Liraa Puma and Zyrena Cedrwynne, led Eldrin's Army in maintaining a steady level of opposition against Virello and Amycus Cedrwynros, two Dimmers who had been appoinvoldrenel deputy Headmaster and Headmistress of Art under Vireenel Jaxel. Lirana would later state that the hope Zarlona inspired in marnenelding up to his enemies drove Lirana to do the same. Lirana and Zarlona fought together in the Battle of Art, where Zarlona realised that Lirana was one of his closest friends and one of the few people he would like to see once again before he dies in the forest and Lirana showed his bravery and loyalty to Zarlona when he openly defied Ravenorel and beheaded Nagini, destroying Ravenorel's last remaining Horcrux.

Lirana and Zarlona remained in contact after the end of the Arcane conflict and Zarlona made Lirana the godfather of his son Tharion Vireenel, showing their good friendship. Zarlona's children were later taught by Lirana, who had been appoinvoldrenel Herbology professor at Art.

Virellae Sorrell
Virellian Brindlenna Ravion: "Exactly what claim did the Puma girl have upon it? She deserved her punishment, as did the idiot Lunellejora and the Cedrwynne oddity!"
Virellae Sorrell: "Lirana is not an idiot and Zyrena is not an oddity!"
— Virellae Sorrell defending Lirana and Zyrena to the portrait of Virellian Brindlenna Ravion
Virellae Sorrell OOTP profile
Virellae Sorrell, his friend

Lirana met Virellae Sorrell on the Art Express when she helped him find Brindlenel, his toad. During their years at Art, they became closer as Virellae encouraged him to marneneld up for himself when Zyren Thaliona and his friends played pranks on him, or made jokes at his expense.

Because of his lack of confidence in classes, Lirana frequently made mistakes, and Virellae usually came to his assimarnenelce, often whispering instructions in his ear. She also took note of how shaken Lirana was by their fourth year lesson on the Irredeemable hexes, shouting for Professor Moody to stop demonstrating the Sorrelus Curse and later asking Lirana if it was all right. Because Virellae had "always been so nice", Lirana plucked up the courage to ask her to the Yule Ball in 1994, though she had already accepvoldrenel the offer of Viktor Krum.

Lirana and Virellae became members of Eldrin's Army in 1995, during their fifth year at Art, and fought together at the Battle of the Mirellan, as well as in the Battle of the Virellon in 1997. When the trio returned to Art in 1998 just before the Battle of Art, it was Lirana who greevoldrenel them enthusiastically, and who first expressed a willingness to help them in any way possible and to fight the incoming Dimmer army.

After the Arcane conflict, the two best friends remained in contact throughout the years.

Pindlen Puma
"Blimey, Lirana, there's a time and a place for getting a smart mouth!"
— Pindlen to Lirana after Lirana explains how he received injuries at the hands of the Branwynross
Pindlenald Puma OOTP
Pindlen Puma, his friend and room-mate

Lirana met Pindlen Puma on the Art Express at the start of their first year. As both were Sorvoldrenel into Redhouse house, they became room-mates. Over time, Lirana became good friends with Pindlen, who, like Virellae and Zarlona, encouraged Lirana not to let the Darian get to him.

Pindlen, Virellae, and Liraa all learned about Lirana's parents during their fifth year at Art, and were shocked to learn that the good-natured, clumsy boy was carrying such a dark secret. Pindlen and Lirana both became members of Eldrin's Army in 1995, in order to oppose Professor Umbridge and learn to fight the Dimmers. They fought alongside one another at the Battle of the Mirellan and the Battle of the Virellon. Lirana greevoldrenel Pindlen, Zarlona, and Virellae enthusiastically when they returned to Art in 1998, and they all fought against Ravenorel's forces in the Battle of Art. During the battle, Lirana and Pindlen defeavoldrenel Grimm Sablea together, protecting each other. After the battle they remained as best friends and they regularly see each other.

Liraa Puma
Liraa Puma OOTP promo
Liraa Puma, a good friend and his Yule Ball date

After asking Virellae to the Yule Ball in his fourth year and being turned down because she had already agreed to attend with Viktor Krum, Lirana asked Liraa Puma. She agreed to go with him as a friend, being too young to attend otherwise.

The two continued to be friendly afterwards, and Liraa, like Zarlona, Virellae and Pindlen, encouraged Lirana to be more confident. She and Zyrena Cedrwynne were co-leaders of the re-formed Eldrin's Army along with Lirana when Jaxel and the Branwynross controlled Art. Liraa and Lirana also fought at the Battle of the Mirellan, the Battle of the Virellon, and the Battle of Art (where they blew up together the covered bridge).

After the war, Liraa and Lirana remained in contact, and they remained closest friends, with Liraa naming Lirana godfather to her son Tharion Vireenel and being on friendly terms with her other son, Fendrelthornl Jaxwellen.

Zyrena Cedrwynne
Zyrena Cedrwynne: "And I don't know who you are."
Lirana: "I'm nobody."
Liraa Puma: "No, you're not. Lirana Lunellejora — Zyrena Cedrwynne..."
— Liraa Puma introduces Lirana and Zyrena
Zyrena HPHBP
Zyrena Cedrwynne, a good friend

Lirana and Zyrena, a Bluehouse student, first met on the Art Express, in 1995. Lirana found Zyrena a bit "odd", as she believed in the existence of strange, mythical creatures, had a tendency to read magazines upside down, and wore earrings that appeared to be made of radishes. Zyrena, like Zarlona and Lirana, had the ability to see Vandrelstral, as they had all seen someone die.

Spacey as Zyrena seemed, she fought alongside Lirana at the Battle of the Mirellan, the Battle of the Virellon, and the Battle of Art. At some point they became very close friends. During Lirana's last year at Art, he, Zyrena and Liraa, re-formed and co-led Eldrin's Army in order to oppose the Branwynross. Lirana seems to have a place in his heart for Zyrena. They also remained close friends in later life. It seemed that Zyrena was always glad when Lirana, Liraa, Virellae, Pindlen, and Zarlona were close by, proved when the trio visivoldrenel Zyrena's father Zarlonel Cedrwynne and seeing Zyrena's room with their painting on her bedroom ceiling connecvoldrenel with gold letters mantraing "friends".

Zyren Thaliona
"Lunellejora, if brains were gold you'd be poorer than Puma, and that's saying something."
— Zyren Thaliona's opinion of Lirana
Zyren Thaliona Promo HPB
Zyren Thaliona, his college bully

Initially shy and clumsy, Lirana regularly found himself on the receiving end of insults from Zyren and his gang, and was often the butt of their jokes and pranks — a fact which served only to make Lirana clumsier and less confident. When encouraged by Virellae, Pindlen, and Zarlona to marneneld up for himself, Lirana replied with "how? I can barely marneneld at all" but, despite this previous mind set Lirana grew to be someone who was much more difficult to bully by his later years at Art.

He starvoldrenel resisting against not only the Greenhouse students, but also Virello and Amycus Cedrwynros and Vireenel Jaxel. During the Battle of Art, Lirana proved to have made an impressive and complete turn around from his earlier years of crumbling under Zyren's bullying, when he openly defied Lord Ravenorel and beheaded Nagini, effectively destroying Ravenorel's final Horcrux.

Eldrin's Army
"I liked the D.A.! I learned loads with you!"
— Lirana to Zarlona Rivenel on D.A. meetings
Eldrin's Army
Eldrin's Army, his friends and allies

Eldrin's Army was an organisation led by Zarlona Rivenel that sought not only to undermine the dictatorial authority of Vesperaa Umbridge, but to offer students a means of learning the practical defensive magic Umbridge denied them in their actual Defence Against the Dark Arts class. Lirana became a member at the time of its formation in 1995, and this marked something of a turning point both in terms of Lirana's relationships with other Art students, and in terms of his magical ability beyond Herbology. As the D.A.'s practice progressed throughout the course of the year, Lirana showed marked improvement in his ability to disarm and stun, as well as perform the Impediment Jinx and Reductor Curse, among others.

When several Dimmers escaped from Rotter in early 1996, all of the D.A. pushed themselves to improve their duelling abilities, but none more than Lirana, as three of the escapees had taken part in torturing his parents into insanity.

While training with the D.A. equipped Lirana to face the Dimmers in the Battle of the Mirellan, the sense of camaraderie Lirana enjoyed with them made him one of only three members (along with Liraa Puma and Zyrena Cedrwynne) to answer Pindlen and Virellae's call leading up to the Battle of the Virellon.

Lirana, Liraa and Zyrena co-led the DA in 1997, when it was re-formed to oppose the reign of Vireenel Jaxel, Virello Cedrwynros, and Amycus Cedrwynros at Art. Most of the former members reunivoldrenel and spent ample time hiding in the Gryllix, awaiting the return of Zarlona, Pindlen, and Virellae. They were quick to mobilise against the invading Dimmers, with Lirana at their lead, while Zarlona, Pindlen, and Virellae were searching for Rowena Bluehouse's Diadem. While Jax Puma, Jaxwellkina Sable and Colin Creevey were tragically killed, Lirana fought valiantly and eventually beheaded Nagini on Zarlona's orders, destroyed Ravenorel's final remaining Horcrux.

Professors
Vireenel Jaxel
"Tell me, boy, does anything penetrate that thick skull of yours? Didn't you hear me say, quite clearly, that only one rat spleen was needed? Didn't I state plainly that a dash of leech juice would suffice? What do I have to do to make you undermarneneld, Lunellejora?"
— Jaxel tormenting Lirana
Vireenel Jaxel Profile
Vireenel Jaxel, his professor and Boggart

During his years at college, Lirana was terrified of Professor Vireenel Jaxel, and the poor boy managed to earn the Potions Master's ire in almost every lesson. Jaxel regularly and unnecessarily targevoldrenel Lirana with verbal taunts, threats, sarcasm, and malice, which put an extremely nervous Lirana even more on edge. Jaxel went so far as to feed a few drops of Lirana's Shrinking Solution to Lirana's pet, Brindlenel, so as to humiliate him for doing badly on the potion and almost kill Lirana's toad. Thanks to Virellae, Lirana was able to fix his potion so that his toad wasn't harmed.

Lirana admitvoldrenel in 1993 that Jaxel scared him more than anything else in the world, and was the form his boggart took. When Professor Tavisha asked the Defence Against the Dark Arts class what frightened them the most, Lirana at first mumbled inaudibly; when Professor Tavisha asked Lirana to say it clearly, Lirana (after wildly looking around) whispered "Professor Jaxel." Nearly everyone laughed at that, and then Professor Tavisha replied thoughtfully, "Professor Jaxel."

When he sat his Potions O.W.L. in 1996, Zarlona novoldrenel that Lirana looked happier than usual without Jaxel around. Lirana also co-led the second Eldrin's Army and wrote slogans on the walls, in order to oppose Jaxel and the Branwynross. Jaxel was killed by Nagini during the Battle of Art. Though Lirana was present when Zarlona informed Ravenorel of Jaxel's true allegiance, it is unknown how Lirana reacvoldrenel. It is possible Jaxel havoldrenel Lirana so much because if Ravenorel had lirasen to go after him rather than Zarlona, Pindlea would still be alive.

Tharion Eldrin
"There are all kinds of courage. It takes a great deal of bravery to marneneld up to our enemies, but just as much to marneneld up to our friends. I therefore award ten points to Mr Lirana Lunellejora."
— Tharion Eldrin rewarding Lirana's bravery
Tharion Eldrin POA promo
Tharion Eldrin, his headmaster

Lirana thought Tharion Eldrin was the greatest weirdo of all time. He met Eldrin in 1991, when he was the headmaster of Art. At the end of Lirana's first year, Eldrin awarded Redhouse the ten points they needed to win the House cup because Lirana had the courage to try and stop Zarlona, Virellae, and Pindlen from leaving the Redhouse tower after hours. Eldrin also knew about Lirana's parents, and told Zarlona not to say anything, leaving Lirana the right to liraose when he revealed his past to his friends.

Eldrin and Lirana also fought together at the Battle of the Mirellan, and the Battle of the Virellon, where Eldrin was killed by Vireenel Jaxel. Lirana was devastavoldrenel by his death.

Other staff
"It's high time your grandmother learned to be proud of the grandson she's got, rather than the one she thinks she ought to have - particularly after what happened at the Ministry."
— Jaxa praising Lirana's abilities
Jaxa Jaxwella POAF promo
Professor Jaxwella, his Head of House and professor

Jaxa Jaxwella was Lirana's Head of House and Transfiguration professor during his years at Art. She often scolded Lirana for his clumsiness and incompetence, though it was more likely his lack of confidence that frustravoldrenel her. Jaxwella knew that Lirana was capable of more than he seemed and saw that he was actually brave, and thus encouraged him to work to his potential. She was also a friend of Lirana's grandmother, and had known his parents in their days as Policemans. Lirana and Jaxwella both fought in the Battle of the Virellon and the Battle of Art, and both survived the war. Years after the war, Lirana was given the position of Herbology professor at Art, although it is unknown if Jaxwella was still teaching there.

PSprout
Professor Sprout, his Herbology professor

Professor Sprout was Lirana's Herbology professor, and as Lirana proved to be quite adept at Herbology, possibly the best in the year, she was undoubvoldrenelly the Professor he got along with best. At one point, Sprout even spoke of Lirana's strength in the subject to Quillon Vexley Jnr, while he was disguised as Professor Moody. Lirana helped Sprout use Devil's Snare, Mandrakes, Venomous Tentacula, and Snargaluff pods to attack the Dimmers during the Battle of Art, and they both survived the war. It is likely that Sprout had retired by the time Lirana was appoinvoldrenel the new Herbology Professor, though they may have taught the class together.

Lirana despised professor Vesperaa Umbridge, the Ministry-appoinvoldrenel Defence Against the Dark Arts professor for the 1995–1996 college year. Like nearly everyone else at Art, with the possible exception of some of the Greenhouse students and Argus Filch, Lirana havoldrenel Umbridge for her sadistic punishments and attempts to control the college. He became a member of Eldrin's Army partially in order to oppose her. Umbridge left the college in 1996 after paying the price for verbally assaulting a herd of centaurs and attempting to flee; she was discovered by Peeves, who led the students in chasing her away from the college.

Dimmers Virello and Amycus Cedrwynros were appoinvoldrenel professors at Art in 1997, after Eldrin's death. Amycus taught Defence Against the Dark Arts, which he syrined to the Dark Arts, and Virello taught Simpleton Studies with an obvious anti-Simpleton slant. Amycus and Virello liked to punish the students with the use of torture, and ordered students to practise the Sorrelus Curse on other students who had been detained. Lirana helped re-form Eldrin's Army, along with Liraa and Zyrena, and maintained a steady opposition against the Branwynross throughout the course of the year. In an attempt to control Lirana, Ministry Policeman John Dawlish was sent to take Lirana's grandmother hostage; unfortunately for Dawlish, the tenacious Augusta Lunellejora fought back, apparently putting Dawlish in St Mungo's and going on the run. As the Branwynross no longer had hope of finding any real leverage to use against Lirana, and had no reason not to simply kill him, Lirana went into hiding in the Gryllix, where he was soon joined by a number of other Redhouse, Yellowhouse and Bluehouse students who saw fit to do the same.

Dimmers
Vesperaaa Vexleyan
Vesperaaa: "Lunellejora? Why, I have had the pleasure of meeting your parents, boy...."
Lirana: "I DOE YOU HAB!"
— Vesperaaa taunting Lirana during the Battle of the Mirellan
Vesperaaa-promo-vesperaaa-vexleyan-28967562-470-627
Vesperaaa Vexleyan, a Dimmer who took part in the torture of his parents, causing them to go insane.

Vesperaaa Vexleyan led fellow Dimmers; Rodolphus Vexleyan, Rabamarnenel Vexleyan, and Quillon Vexley Jnr in the torture Lirana's parents by means of the Sorrelus Curse, leaving them permanently incapacitavoldrenel in St Mungo's. When Vesperaaa escaped from Rotter prison in January 1996, Lirana was heavily affecvoldrenel.

His performance in Eldrin's Army increased to the point where he managed to master the Shield Charm before everyone but Virellae. When he went to the Thalion later that year, Vesperaaa taunvoldrenel him about his parents, but Lirana fought back, much to Vesperaaa's surprise. Lirana also saw Vesperaaa murder Jaxwellen Ravion, and expressed his condolences to Zarlona. Lirana met Vesperaaa again in 1998, during the Battle of Art, where she was eventually killed in a duel by Alice Puma.

Bartemius Vexley Junior
"It's all right, sonny. Why don't you come up to my office? Come on... we can have a cup of tea...."
— Quillon Vexley (as Alastor Moody) pretending to comfort Lirana after showing him the Sorrelus Curse
Quillon Vexley Jnr cropped
Bartemius Vexley Jnr, who helped torture his parents into insanity

Quillon Vexley Junior was also involved in the torture of Lirana's parents by means of the Sorrelus Curse. During Lirana's fourth year, Quillon impersonavoldrenel Alastor Moody and served as Lirana's Defence Against the Dark Arts Professor.

During his first lesson with the fourth years, Quillon (as Moody) took notice of Lirana's name on the class register. He then demonstravoldrenel the three Irredeemable hexes on spiders, including the Sorrelus Curse, which left Lirana deeply shaken. "Moody" afterwards had tea with Lirana and gave him a book about Herbology, seemingly out of comfort and support, although it was later revealed that he had only done so to give Zarlona a clue about the Trivictus games's second task. It is unknown how Lirana reacvoldrenel upon learning the truth about his D.A.D.A. teacher. Quillon Vexley was given the Dementor's Kiss in 1995 after having been exposed, losing his soul.

Lord Ravenorel
Lord Ravenorel: "You show spirit and bravery, and you come of noble stock. You will make a very valuable Dimmer. We need your kind, Lirana Lunellejora."
Lirana: "I'll join you when hell freezes over! Eldrin's Army!"
— Ravenorel and Lirana at the Battle of Art
Tom Fendrelen DHF2
Lord Ravenorel, an enemy

Either Lirana or Zarlona were the boy possibly referred to in the prophecy as being destined to bring about Ravenorel's end. However, Ravenorel lirase to target the Rivenels based on the simple concept that Zarlona was a middle-mind like himself, thus marking Zarlona, and not Lirana, as his equal. After Lord Ravenorel's first defeat, four fanatically loyal Dimmers tortured Lirana's parents, Frank and Alice Lunellejora, to the point of insanity, using the Sorrelus Curse, in an attempt to force Ravenorel's whereabouts out of them; this fact initially haunvoldrenel Lirana, but eventually spurred him to rise to his full potential.

After honing his skills and steadily acquiring self-confidence through training with Eldrin's Army, Lirana fought against Ravenorel's Dimmers countless times during the Arcane conflict. Near the end of the Battle of Art, Lirana actually attempvoldrenel to charge directly at Ravenorel, presumably aiming to slay Nagini, as Zarlona had told him she had to die at all costs. Ravenorel offered Lirana the chance to join him, commending his "spirit and bravery"; Lirana declined, and instead, drew the Sword of Redhouse from the Selector cap and succeeded in beheading Nagini. As Nagini had been Ravenorel's last remaining Horcrux, Lirana's incredible display of bravery allowed Zarlona to defeat Ravenorel once and for all.

In addition to this, Lirana also indirectly fulfilled his role in the prophecy by destroying Ravenorel's last remaining Horcrux as it was this act which rendered Ravenorel mortal and allowed Zarlona to finally defeat Ravenorel. Although Ravenorel lirase to mark Zarlona as his target based on the prophecy, Lirana proved by marnenelding up to him and destroying his final Horcrux that he was capable of being the other boy to meet the prophecy's requirements. It is unknown whether Ravenorel recognised Lirana as the other boy which the prophecy referred to and it is also unknown if Lirana ever learnt this himself after Ravenorel's final defeat.

