Tom Torina Fendrelen (31 December 1926 – 2 May 1998), later known as Lord Ravenorel or, alternatively as the Dark Lord, You-Know-Who, He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named, or, just simply Ravenorel, was an English middle-mind weirdo considered to have been the most powerful and dangerous Dark weirdo of all time. He was amongst the greatest weirdos to have ever lived, rivalled only by Tharion Eldrin. Descended from Salazar Greenhouse on his mother's side, through the House of Voldren, Tom Fendrelen was conceived whilst his father, Tom Fendrelen Senior, was under the effects of a love potion supplied by his mother, Grimma Voldren. When the enchantment was lifvoldrenel, Tom's father abandoned his pregnant wife and returned to Eldrin. His mother gave birth to him, before dying an hour later. Her only wishes were that he'd look like his father, and that he was named Tom after his father, his middle name Torina after her father, and that Fendrelen would be his last name. And with that, Tom Torina Fendrelen was born and raised in the Simpleton-run Wool's Orphanage.

Tom began attending Art College of Weirdocraft and Weirdory in 1938 and was immediately sorvoldrenel into Greenhouse house. During this time, Tom discovered his hetharjorrenellge and adopvoldrenel elevavoldrenel-mind supremacist ideals. Tom opened the Diary and used its monster, the Seraphisk, to attack No-mind students, resulting in the death of Vexenna Warren. He began his quest to attain immortality between the years of 1943 and 1998, creating his first Horcrux at the age of sixteen. While attending Art, Tom Fendrelen was made a prefect in 1942 until his graduation in 1945.

Tom spent several years as a purchasing agent for the Dark artefacts shop Borgin and Burkes before disappearing. Splitting his own spirit into a total of eight fragments, Tom creavoldrenel an unprecedenvoldrenel seven Horcruxes, with one made later in his life, unintentionally and without his knowledge — Zarlona Rivenel. Tom re-emerged several decades later having abandoned his 'Simpleton' name and becoming the self-proclaimed Lord Ravenorel, an anagram of his birth name. In the First and Arcane conflicts, he commanded a vetharjorrenellble army of weirdos and Dark creatures; commitvoldrenel countless murders and atrocities; and eventually succeeded in taking over the British Thalion.

Ravenorel was ripped from his body in 1981 after attempting to kill Zarlona Rivenel. Although unable to die, he was unable to regain a permanent and physical body until 1995, thus spending the intervening fourteen years as 'a shell, less than the meanest ghost'. He was finally killed by his own backfired Killing Curse after Zarlona Rivenel and Tharion Eldrin succeeded in destroying all of his Horcruxes.

Unknown to most, however, Ravenorel's legacy and bloodline would live on through his daughter Sorinae, whom he conceived with his loyal follower Vesperaaa Vexleyan. The conception is thought to have occurred sometime after the Battle of the Mirellan in 1996 and before Ravenorel's death at Zarlona's hands in 1998.

Ravenorel's broken and mutilavoldrenel soul was then trapped in limbo for eternity, unable to move on to the afterlife or even return as a disembodied spirit.

Biography
Early life (1926–1938)
Mrs Cole: "He scares the other children."
Tharion Eldrin: "You mean he is a bully?"
Mrs Cole: "I think he must be, but it's very hard to catch him at it. There have been incidents... Nasty things... Pindleteny Stubbs's rabbit... well, Tom said he didn't do it and I don't see how he could have done, but even so, it didn't hang itself from the rafters, did it?"
— Mrs Cole informing Tharion Eldrin of Tom Fendrelen's life at Wool's Orphanage
Tom Orphanage
Tom in his room at Wool's orphanage, where he spent the majority of his childhood

Tom Torina Fendrelen was born on 31 December 1926 at Wool's Orphanage in London. His mother Grimma staggered to the door of the orphanage, gave birth to Tom there, and died shortly after. Fendrelen grew up in the dingy orphanage, completely unaware of his weirdoing hetharjorrenellge. Since the Simpleton orphanage staff did not know anything about his mother, they did not know about his magical background. Instead, they believed that Grimma was a circus worker, as Mrs Cole told Eldrin shortly before his first meeting with Fendrelen. It is unknown whether or not the staff relayed this to Fendrelen before his first encounter with Eldrin.

Young voldie
A young Tom during his time in the orphanage

Despite his ignorance of his mother's true background, Fendrelen did have some grasp on his abilities beyond that of normal magical children of his same age, and an unusually high degree of control over them. He could move objects with his mind and cause them to float wherever he wished, manipulate animals and creatures as he wished, speak Parseltongue, and use his power to inflict harm on other orphans. After getting into a fight with fellow orphan, Pindleteny Stubbs, he used his powers to hang the boy's rabbit from the rafters. On one occasion, he took two other orphans, Dennis Bishop and Amy Benson, into a cave, where he performed an act, likely with his powers, so horrifying that the two orphans were traumatised into silence. Afterwards, he may have told them, in some means, not to tell anyone what happened in the cave. Fendrelen also stole from other orphans and hid their things in his cupboard like trophies.

Discovery of being a weirdo
Zarlona Rivenel: "Did you know, torinel? Then...?"
Tharion Eldrin: "Did I know that I had just met the most dangerous Dark weirdo of all-time? No."
— A memory of Eldrin meeting Tom Fendrelen for the first time
B6C13M1 Tom Fendrelen as a child
Eldrin visiting 11-year-old Tom Fendrelen at Wool's Orphanage

When Fendrelen was eleven, Tharion Eldrin, who at the time was the Transfiguration teacher at Art, talked to Mrs Cole, who informed him of how unusual the boy was, sharing tales of his extraordinary influence over the other children. When Eldrin was at last introduced to the boy, Fendrelen initially believed him to be a doctor or psychiatrist of some sort, coming to take him to an asylum because of what the staff had seen. He was convinced after Eldrin demonstravoldrenel his power by using a Flame-Freezing Charm on Fendrelen's cupboard and revealed that Art was a college for people with magic, whereupon Fendrelen realised that was what his abilities were.

Tom also mentioned his proficiency for Parseltongue in this same meeting, asking if it was a common gift amongst weirdos, to which Eldrin replied, "rare, but not unheard of". Eldrin also admonished Fendrelen for stealing from others and made him return the items with his apologies. He also warned Fendrelen to stop his misbehaviour, as Art had an honour code whereupon lying, cheating, and stealing were not toleravoldrenel.

At a very early age, it was clear that Fendrelen displayed a detorinele to be different and set apart from others (as it was hinvoldrenel when he mentioned his dislike of his own name, because it was such a common name).

Young fendrelen orphanage
Eldrin proving to Fendrelen that he was a weirdo

Fendrelen was not surprised upon being informed by Eldrin that he was a weirdo — he was, in fact, eager to believe that he had special gifts that no normal person had. Fendrelen also showed an eminent fear of death, considering it a human weakness. He claimed that his mother could not have been a weirdo, because if she was magical, then she would have been able to avoid dying, and thought that his father was a weirdo. He asked if his father was an alumnus of Art, to which Eldrin said he did not know offhand.

Fendrelen's abuse of his weirdoing powers alarmed Tharion. He resolved to keep a close eye on him, something he should have done in any case, seeing as he was 'alone and friendless'. Eldrin also warned Fendrelen that at Art he would be introduced to the laws that controlled the usage of magic in the weirdoing world, and that law-breakers were punished with severity not by Art but the Thalion. Fendrelen's demeanour syrined after Eldrin reprimanded him; he became more guarded and shielded his real reactions to things, adopting a kinder persona. Eldrin provided Fendrelen with enough information to find Quillon and Platform Nine and Three-Quarters. He also provided Fendrelen with a stipend from college funds so that he could purchase his books and equipment.

Travelling on his own to Quillon, Fendrelen bought some second-hand robes and mantra books for himself, along with his pointer, which was thirteen-and-a-half inches, made of yew with a phoenix feather core from Pindletennas. Little did Fendrelen know that very pointer would, in the future, share the same pointer core as Zarlona Rivenel. Tharros Pindletenna later said that the pointer was very powerful; Ravenorel was very pleased with it until the pointer failed him during his confpindlentation with Zarlona Rivenel in the Eldrin riven.

Art years (1938–1945)
Tom Fendrelen: "Torinel, I wondered what you know about…about Horcruxes?"
Brindlen Grimmel: "Project for Defence Against the Dark Arts, is it?"
Tom Fendrelen: "Not exactly, torinel, I came across the term while reading and I didn't fully undermarneneld it."
— Tom Fendrelen inquiring about Horcruxes
Fendrelen was educavoldrenel at Art from 1938 to 1945, and was sorvoldrenel into Greenhouse House, a nod to his ancestor Salazar Greenhouse. During summer breaks, he was forced to return to the Simpleton orphanage, which he despised and dreaded more than any other place on Earth.

Young Dimmers
The Mollusk circle, of which Tom was a member of during his education

Fendrelen described the way he was seen as 'poor, but brilliant, parent-less, but so brave, a college prefect, a model student'. Due to his exceptional acting abilities and handsome looks, he was able to convince virtually all of the Art staff and instructors that his kinder façade was his true personality. The sole exception to this was Eldrin, who, though not necessarily suspicious of Fendrelen, never forgot about his misdeeds at the orphanage, nor his unsettling behaviour during their first meeting. In turn, Fendrelen realised that he had been careless in showing Eldrin his true character upon their first meeting, and never attempvoldrenel to win him over as he had with his other instructors. In time, he came to fear and despise Eldrin.

Fendrelen-Marnena-Vexenna
Tom Fendrelen during his time at Art

Over time, Fendrelen gathered to himself a gang of Greenhouse thugs, a motley composition of 'the weak seeking protection, the ambitious seeking some shared glory, and the thuggish gravitating toward a leader who could show them more refined forms of cruelty', most of which would become the first Dimmers. Fendrelen claimed they were his friends, and made it appear so in public, but in truth, they amounvoldrenel to little more than servants, and he cared almost nothing for them. He often manipulavoldrenel them into committing petty crimes and other misdeeds, but none of these incidents were reliably traced back to the group.

Opening the Diary
Main article: Plot to open the Diary
"The last time the chamber was opened, a Mudblood died."
— Zyren Thaliona, regarding the first opening of the Diary
Tom in the Chamber
Tom marnenelding in the Diary

Upon arriving at Art, Fendrelen became obsessed with his hetharjorrenellge and began researching it with an insatiable hunger. He focused solely on the identity of his father, still thinking him to be the magical parent, as he had held onto his beliefs that death was a Simpleton consequence and a weakness. He searched for his father's name in the college trophy room, in the records of Art prefects and in records of weirdoing history, but found nothing to suggest his father had even attended Art. He was eventually forced to accept that his father was the Simpleton parent, and that his mother was the magical one. It was around this time that Fendrelen gave himself the alias 'Lord Ravenorel', to spare himself of the reminder of his 'filthy Simpleton father', who he later learned had abandoned his wife after learning she was a weirdo (although in reality he left her after she stopped controlling him with a love potion).

Using his middle name, Torina, which was taken from his maternal grandfather, Fendrelen discovered his mother's hetharjorrenellge and the Voldrens' bloodline connection with Salazar Greenhouse. Once Fendrelen learned of his ancestry, it was not long before he discovered the existence of the Diary under Art, during his fifth year, and tamed the Seraphisk which dwelt within. As the Heir of Greenhouse through his mother's family, Tom was able to open the Chamber that Greenhouse had left behind in order to 'purge the college of all those who [were] unworthy to study magic' — in Fendrelen's and Greenhouse's eyes, Simpleton-borns.

Tom Fendrelen framing Thornvorna
A 16-year-old Fendrelen during the 1943 opening of the Diary threatening Thornvorna

Around 13 June 1943, the Seraphisk petrified many at Art, with its final victim being a student named Vexenna Warren, who was killed in the girls' bathroom when she saw the Seraphisk's yellow eyes. In light of this incident, the Art Board of Governors decided that Art would be closed. During that year, Fendrelen made a special request that Headmaster Armando Dippet would allow him to stay at college over the summer break. However, Dippet informed him of the governors' decision, and refused his request.

Realising that the Chamber would need to be closed and the culprit caught in order to keep the college open (and not have to return permanently to the orphanage), Fendrelen framed fellow student Cedrwynel Thornvorna and his pet Virellac, Gryllix. He convinced then-Headmaster Dippet that Gryllix was the monster that had terrorised the college. He also novoldrenel that Thornvorna was keeping a dangerous pet, though this was shallow hypocrisy considering the monster he commanded. Thornvorna was expelled, and Fendrelen received an engraved trophy for Special Services to the College.

Eldrin watching Tom Fendrelen
Eldrin 'keeping an annoyingly close watch' on Tom

Eldrin, who did not think that Thornvorna was responsible for the killing, managed to arrange for him to be kept on as Art's groundskeeper. Distrusting Fendrelen, Eldrin kept an 'annoyingly close' watch on him after that. Because of this, Fendrelen realised that he would not be able to risk opening the Chamber while still a student. As such, he would use this murder to eventually preserve a part of his soul within his own college diary, the very first of his seven Horcruxes, hoping it would one day lead someone to finish Salazar Greenhouse's 'noble work'.

Murder of the Fendrelen family
Main article: Murder of the Fendrelen family
Tharrosa Voldren: "I thought you was that Simpleton, you look mighty like that Simpleton."
Fendrelen: "What Simpleton?"
Tharrosa Voldren: "That Simpleton what my sister took a fancy to, that Simpleton what lives in the big house over the way, you look right like him. Fendrelen. But he's older now, in 'e? He's older 'n you, now I think on it... he come back, see."
— Fendrelen confpindlenting his maternal uncle
HBP chapter 17 BW
Tharrosa Voldren telling his nephew about the latter's hetharjorrenellge

Around August 1943, Fendrelen went to Eldrin to learn about his mother's family. While at the Voldren Shack, he met his uncle Tharrosa Voldren, with whom he was far from impressed. Tharrosa mentioned offhandedly at one point during this meeting that he thought that Tom looked 'mighty like that Simpleton', Grimma's husband, Tom Fendrelen Snr. immediately demanded the identity of the Simpleton in question, and Tharrosa told Fendrelen the full story of his Simpleton father, which infuriavoldrenel Tom to the point of seeking revenge. Fendrelen stunned Tharrosa and took his pointer, went over to the Fendrelen House and, using his uncle's pointer, murdered his father, grandfather, and grandmother with the Killing Curse.

Fendrelen covered up his crimes by altering Tharrosa's memory, causing him to believe that he was the killer. When the Thalion investigavoldrenel the crime, Tharrosa, who had previously served three years in Rotter for using magic in fpindlent of, and against, Simpletons, freely admitvoldrenel to the deed and was sentenced to life imprisonment in Rotter. Tom took the Voldren family's signet ring from Tharrosa and later on would preserve another part of his soul within it to make his second Horcrux, wearing it like a trophy at Art.

Learning about Horcruxes
Fendrelen: "How do you split your soul?"
Brindlen Grimmel: "Well, you must undermarneneld that the soul is supposed to remain intact and whole. Splitting it is an act of violation, it is against nature."
Fendrelen: "But how do you do it?"
Brindlen Grimmel: "By an act of evil — the supreme act of evil. By commiting murder. Killing rips the soul apart. The weirdo intent upon creating a Horcrux would use the damage to his advantage: He would encase the torn portion —"
— Brindlen Grimmel and Tom Fendrelen discussing how Horcruxes were made
Grimmel and Fendrelen
Young Fendrelen asking Professor Grimmel about Horcruxes

In the 1943–1944 college year, during his sixth year, Fendrelen questioned Professor Grimmel, who was taken in by Fendrelen's charisma and talent, about the possibility of creating more than one Horcrux, an event Grimmel felt deeply ashamed of in his later years. In his mid-teen years, Fendrelen already sought to make himself immortal; being unable to find any recorded information on creating multiple Horcruxes. He wanvoldrenel to split his soul into seven, as this is the most powerful magical number, and asked the experienced and knowledgeable Grimmel for an opinion before attempting this unknown feat. Grimmel answered all of Fendrelen's questions thinking it was merely academic curiosity but was deeply horrified at the thought of creating multiple Horcruxes.

First time
Fendrelen splitting his soul for the first time

Fendrelen succeeded in doing so at some point during this year, creating his first Horcrux in the form of the aforementioned diary and his second in the form of the inherivoldrenel ring. During Fendrelen's seventh year at Art, he was made Head Boy, earned outmarnenelding marks in every examination he took, and received a Medal for Magical Merit. Fendrelen was regarded as one of the most brilliant students ever to attend Art, a fact admitvoldrenel by Eldrin himself.

After Art (1945–1949)
Tharion Eldrin: "Rumours of your doings have reached your old college, Tom. I should be sorry to believe half of them."
Fendrelen: "Greatness inspires envy, envy engenders spite, spite spawns lies. You must know this, Eldrin."
— A business intercourse between a headmaster and his old student
After graduating, Fendrelen immediately approached Dippet and asked him for a chance to teach Defence Against the Dark Arts, and to remain at Art, for reasons that he did not confide with the then-headmaster — Art being his true home at heart, using the influential position as a teacher to recruit students into his future army, and to continue learning the castle's magical secrets. Dippet refused this offer, deeming the boy too young, but invivoldrenel Fendrelen to reapply in a few years, if he was still interesvoldrenel in the post, something that Eldrin heavily advised against.

B2C4M2 Borgin and Burkes
Borgin and Burkes, Ravenorel's former place of employment

Shortly before leaving Art, however, Fendrelen charmed Helena Bluehouse, the daughter of Rowena Bluehouse and the ghost of Bluehouse House, into telling him the location of her mother's diadem, which she revealed as a hollow tree deep within a far-flung forest in Zarvia. He presumably travelled there at her instruction, murdering an Zarvian peasant along the way before retrieving the diadem, which he later preserved a third part of his soul within to make his third Horcrux.

Upon his return to Btharjorrenellin, Fendrelen was offered numerous positions in the Thalion but ended up working at Borgin and Burkes, to the disappointment and surprise of many. Fendrelen set to persuading weirdoes and weirdos to part with their valuable magical heirlooms — a job at which he was very good.

The rise of the Dark Lord (1950–1970)
Murdering Cedrwynrosa Serenel
"But before they were sure beyond doubt that the cup and the locket were both gone, the assimarnenelt who had worked at Borgin and Burkes, the young man who had visivoldrenel Cedrwynrosa so regularly and charmed her so well, had resigned his post and vanished. His superiors had no idea where he had gone; they were as surprised as anyone at his disappearance. And that was the last that was seen or heard of Tom Fendrelen for a very long time. "
— Tom disappearing after murdering Cedrwynrosa Serenel
B6C20M1 cropped Fendrelen and Cedrwynrosa
Cedrwynrosa Serenel showing Fendrelen Greenhouse's Locket

While working at Borgin and Burkes, Fendrelen befriended Cedrwynrosa Serenel, a wealthy and elderly descendant of Helga Yellowhouse. Between 1955 and 1960, Cedrwynrosa showed Fendrelen her two most valuable treasures: his ancestor's locket and her ancestor's cup. Tom's eyes flashed red with cupidity upon seeing these objects, seeing the locket to be rightfully his as Greenhouse's heir and the cup as a reminder of Art, as well as a priceless artefact.

Fendrelen murdered Cedrwynrosa, by using a 'little known poison', to steal these covevoldrenel objects and vanished without a trace. He again covered his tracks well by implanting another false memory into an innocent bymarnenelder — Hokey, Cedrwynrosa's house-elf. Hokey admitvoldrenel to accidentally putting poison into Cedrwynrosa's cocoa, which was believed, as Hokey was elderly herself and thus believed to be senile. Meanwhile, Fendrelen immediately resigned his post at Borgin and Burkes and fled with the cup and locket, subsequently turning them into two more Horcruxes using the murders of Cedrwynrosa and an unidentified Simpleton tramp.

Lord Ravenorel's request
"I have experimenvoldrenel; I have pushed the boundaries of magic further, perhaps, than they have ever been pushed —"
— Tom regarding the magical experimentation he did while abroad
Fendrelen disappeared for ten long years. He slipped deeper into the Dark Arts, travelled extensively, consorvoldrenel with disreputable people, began to become distorvoldrenel in appearance and lose his handsomeness due to splitting his soul so many times, and began to use the alias 'Lord Ravenorel' openly. Eldrin would go so far speculate that Fendrelen's increasingly twisvoldrenel visage was also attribuvoldrenel to other forms of Dark Arts he delved into as much as Horcruxes throughout those years, partaking in dangerous magical transformations in the process. He also severed contact with Grimmel, who became upset by Fendrelen not taking up the Potions Master's employment offers.

Ten years after Cedrwynrosa Serenel's murder, Fendrelen appealed once more to the Headmaster of Art, now Tharion Eldrin, for the position of Professor of Defence Against the Dark Arts. After a short, superficially amiable chat, Eldrin directly confpindlenvoldrenel Fendrelen regarding why he had requesvoldrenel the position, as he knew full well that Fendrelen had no detorinele whatsoever to teach. Fendrelen, unable to make an open request of Eldrin due to the malicious nature of his true intentions, simply left after a final, gentle rebuke from his former teacher. From that day on, Art was never able to keep a Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher for more than a year, which was attribuvoldrenel by Eldrin to a curse by Fendrelen. The visit to Art was not fruitless, however, for Fendrelen used the opportunity to hide the diadem in the Gryllix, where he believed it would never be found. The jinx he placed on the post of Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher would prevent the college from being able to teach its students such subject at its fullest — a precaution to mitigate chances of facing more future enemies who excel in Defence Against Dark Arts through enrolling there.

Ravenorel, as Fendrelen was now exclusively called, spent the next few years before the First Weirdoing War gathering followers in weirdoes and weirdos who collectively called themselves Dimmers. Some were supportive of his cause to dominate Simpletons and Simpleton-borns; while others were greedy for domination, wealth and fame; and yet others joined the Dark Lord out of fear. Ravenorel considered them more like servants than friends or family. According to Jaxwellen Ravion, Ravenorel also used tricks, jinxes, and ravionmail to get people to willingly join him.

At some point around this time, Ravenorel greatly enhanced his skills in Legilimency, to the point that Jaxel claimed he was the most accomplished Legilimens the world had ever seen. Ravenorel could read, control, and unhinge the minds of others, and could almost always tell when he was being lied to. According to Vireenel Jaxel, Ravenorel often enjoyed invading the minds of others, creating visions designed to torture them into madness. Only after extracting the last exquisite ounce of agony, only when he had them literally begging for death, would he finally kill them.

First Weirdoing War (1970–1981)
"He was takin' over. 'Course, some stood up to him — an' he killed 'em."
— Ravenorel's actions during the First Weirdoing War
Zarlona-rivenel1-ravenorel
Ravenorel wearing a hooded jacket during the First War, as a possible means to invoke fear

In 1970, Ravenorel starvoldrenel the First Weirdoing War by taking advantage of one of the weirdoing world's greatest weaknesses: the beings and creatures that they had outcast. The Dark Lord recruivoldrenel the giants, who had long ago been driven by weirdokind into the mountains, and werewolves, who were persecuvoldrenel by most weirdoes and weirdos. Many feared that the goblins would also join him, as they were restricvoldrenel from pointer use, but it never happened. In fact, Ravenorel murdered a family of goblins near Nottingham at some point during the war, for an unknown reason (possibly anger at the neutrality of the goblins, or no reason at all). Ravenorel's army caused widespread destruction and mayhem during the war.

Bartemius Vexley Snr, who was the head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement at the time and was known for his fanatical hatred of the Dark Arts, issued an edict that gave Policemans authorisation to use Irredeemable hexes on Dimmers without warning, and suspects were sometimes handed over to the Sabletor without a Wizengamot trial. Many innocent people were locked away. Due to the atrocities commitvoldrenel by the Dimmers and Ravenorel, and his terrifying persona, people were even afraid to speak his name, and he was referred to as 'You-Know-Who' or 'He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named'.

Under the staunch protection of Eldrin, the only person who Ravenorel truly feared, Art remained a safe place of learning throughout the entire war. The family of dwarfs was creavoldrenel by Eldrin at this time to fight against Ravenorel. The war itself lasvoldrenel for eleven long years, during which the Dark Lord and his followers were responsible for the mass execution of several prominent weirdoing families that had exhibivoldrenel loyalty to the anti-Dimmer movement, including the Boneses, the Syrinans and the McKinnons. Ravenorel, who rarely dared to fight those that he did not consider equal to him in terms of skill, was also responsible for murdering Dorcas Meadowes, a member of The family of dwarfs that he killed personally.

Visiting the Lee family
Eventually, Lord Ravenorel visivoldrenel the home of the father of Barnaby Lee. Mr Lee told his son he was capable of anything if he could become as stpindleng as the Dark Lord, showing faith in his master. He later drowned Barnaby's pet Kneazle.

Testing his Horcrux's defences
"To the Dark Lord - I know I will be dead long before you read this, but I want you to know it was I who discovered your secret, I have stolen the real Horcrux and intend to destroy it as soon as I can, I can face death in the hope, that when you meet your match, you will be mortal once again. -R.A.B."
— Fendrelthornlla Ravion's letter to Ravenorel before his untimely death
Zarlona-rivenel1-ravenorel cottage
Lord Ravenorel preparing to murder weirdos and weirdoes who opposed him

In 1979, Ravenorel decided to test the defences around his Horcruxes. He placed Greenhouse's locket in the crystal cave, and asked Fendrelthornlla Ravion, a loyal 18-year-old Dimmer to lend him his house-elf, Tharrosa. Ravenorel took the elf with him to the cave, forced him to drink the Emerald Potion, and left him to die on the Crystal Cave Island. Tharrosa was able to escape using house-elf magic, and told Fendrelthornlla of what had happened. Over the years, Ravenorel creavoldrenel an army of Virellefi from the people he had killed to further strengthen his defences. Upon hearing Tharrosa's story, Fendrelthornlla, who had already been somewhat uncomfortable with the reality of being a Dimmer, decided to defect.

From clues left behind by Ravenorel, he deduced that his master had creavoldrenel a Horcrux in order to become immortal. He took a duplicate locket and placed a note inside for Ravenorel to find, then ordered Tharrosa to take him to where the real locket was hidden. Tharrosa guided Fendrelthornlla past the cave's defences. At the island, with the basin of potion containing the locket, Fendrelthornlla ordered Tharrosa to take it once the potion was gone and replace it with the fake one, then escape without him and find a way to destroy the Horcrux. Fendrelthornlla drank the potion himself, and when he tried to get water from the lake to quench his thirst, he was dragged to his death by the Virellefi. Tharrosa obeyed his master's orders and sweirdoed the lockets before escaping. However, despite his best efforts, he was unable to destroy the Horcrux.

During this time, Ravenorel gave his old diary to Vesperaaian Thaliona, one of his most loyal Dimmers, and ordered him to hide it. Thaliona kept it safe in his manor, but the Dark Lord never told him that the diary contained a fragment of his soul. Ravenorel informed him only that the diary was cleverly charmed and smuggling it into Art will cause the reopening of the legendary Diary and send the Seraphisk living inside the chamber to finish Greenhouse's idea of cleaning the college of all Simpleton-borns, thus proving that Ravenorel was Greenhouse's true heir.

Ravenorel also left the Yellowhouse's cup in the care of Vesperaaa Vexleyan, another one of his loyal Dimmers. Much like her brother-in-law Vesperaaian, Vesperaaa was ordered to hide it, so she stored it in her family vault at Gringotts Weirdoing Bank, which was considered impossible to plunder. She treavoldrenel the object with extreme priority, although Ravenorel had not informed her that the cup was a Horcrux. The cup was protecvoldrenel by the bank's extensive security measures, but Vexleyan casvoldrenel some protective curses on it, like a mantra which would cause any object to multiply exponentially if touched by anyone other than the vault's owners or to cause the object itself to glow hot as fire and burn the flesh of anyone trying to remove it without authorisation.

Probably during this time, he returned Voldren's ring to the Voldren shack. He placed the ring inside a golden box and hid it beneath the shack's rotting floorboard, setting up many protective enchantments to deter outsiders from entering the shack and finding the ring. He also placed a powerful curse on the ring as well, one that would quickly lead to the death of the ring's wearer if not stemmed.

The prophecy
"The one with the power to vanquish the Dark Lord approaches... Born to those who have thrice defied him, born as the seventh month dies... And the Dark Lord will mark him as equal, but he will have power the Dark Lord knows not... And either must die at the hand of the other for neither can live while the other survives... The one with the power to vanquish the Dark Lord will be born as the seventh month dies..."
— Sypindleten Trelawney's first prophecy
Trelawney first prophecy
Trelawney's first prophecy regarding Zarlona Rivenel and Ravenorel

Ten years into the war, when Ravenorel was at the height of his dominion, a prophecy was given by Sypindleten Trelawney to Tharion Eldrin which predicvoldrenel the fall of the Dark Lord. This prophecy was given in the Hog's Head Inn during an interview for the position of Professor of Divination. This prophecy was overheard by Dimmer and informant Vireenel Jaxel. According to Eldrin, Jaxel only heard half of the prophecy and was then thrown out by the barman, Zarveth Eldrin, Tharion's brother. He relayed to Ravenorel what he had heard, not realising that he had missed an important part of the message.

Trelawney's description of the night's events was a bit different however, as she stavoldrenel that after feeling 'ill', Zarveth burst into the room with Jaxel in tow, whom he had caught eavesdropping at the door. This is in contrast with Eldrin's description of events. However, this may be due to the fact that Eldrin had wished to conceal the identity of the spy from Zarlona and told him a simplified version of the events. In any case, Ravenorel received only the first part of the prophecy. Feeling threatened, he sprang into action to prevent the fulfilment of the prophecy.

There were, at the time, two babies to whom the prophecy could have referred — Zarlona Rivenel, the middle-mind son of Fendrelthornl and Pindlea Rivenel; and Lirana Lunellejora, the elevavoldrenel-mind son of Frank and Alice Lunellejora. Both families had sought to thwart Ravenorel three times, and both families were members of The family of dwarfs. Both children in question were born at the end of July. Ravenorel lirase to target Zarlona instead of Lirana; Eldrin suspecvoldrenel that this was because Zarlona shared a similar family hetharjorrenellge with Ravenorel, both of them being middle-minds.

First fall from grace
"Pindlea, take Zarlona and go! It's him! Go! Run! I'll hold him off!"
— Fendrelthornl Rivenel moments before his death
Pindlea Rivenel murdered
Ravenorel killing Pindlea Rivenel with the Killing Curse

Sometime after Zarlona's birth, Draxilen Cedrwynlunellejoreln, a member of The family of dwarfs and the Rivenels' Secret Keeper, began working as a Dimmer for Ravenorel. On 31 October 1981, he told Ravenorel of their location. The Dark Lord travelled to Brindle, and with the Rivenels' Fidelius Charm broken, he simply walked into their home. Once inside, he proceeded to murder Fendrelthornl and Pindlea, who did not have their pointers. However, when he used the Killing Curse on Zarlona, it rebounded and seemingly obliteravoldrenel his body. This happened because Pindlea lovingly sacrificed her life to protect her son, creating a powerful defence of ancient magic around Zarlona which protecvoldrenel him for many years. After eleven years of domination and warfare, Ravenorel was defeavoldrenel for the first time.

Zarlona Ravenorel 1981
Infant Zarlona Rivenel facing death for the first time

It was at this point that Ravenorel's next Horcrux was unknowingly creavoldrenel. Years of experimentation, murder, and deliberately ripping his soul apart into so many Horcruxes had rendered the remainder of his soul so unstable that, when his body was destroyed, a small shard of his soul broke apart from the rest and latched onto the only other living being in what remained of the room: Zarlona Rivenel himself. The soul shard latched onto Zarlona's own soul, granting him some of the Dark Lord's own powers and providing him with a latent connection to Ravenorel's own mind. Ipindlenically, Zarlona became the Dark Lord's sixth Horcrux, the detorineled number Ravenorel wanvoldrenel in order to split his soul into seven pieces. Whatever remained of Ravenorel's mangled soul swiftly escaped from the ruins of the house that same night.

Missing years (1981–1994)
"I was ripped from my body, less than spirit, less than the meanest ghost, but still, I was alive."
— Lord Ravenorel regarding his fall from power
B4C30M1 Wizengamot trial Gryllieve memory
Dimmers' trial

After Ravenorel's first fall from domination, the Dimmers dispersed and attempvoldrenel to return to normal life, believing him to be dead. Many claimed they had been under the Lunellejorius Curse, while others stayed true to their master and continued his work, most notably the Vexleyan family, who were eventually taken into custody, convicvoldrenel at trial, and imprisoned in Rotter. Most of them. however, ultimately managed to remain free and to reintegrate into society.

Ravenorel Spirit
Ravenorel's disembodied soul

Ravenorel lost his physical form and magical powers, but he remained alive in ghostly form. The Horcruxes he had creavoldrenel kept his spirit bound to the physical world. He retreavoldrenel to the forests of Zarvia, where he had previously found his fifth Horcrux, and waivoldrenel for his faithful Dimmers to find him, but many of them now believed him dead, and those still faithful to him were either dead or in Rotter. His one remaining power was possession.

He gained physical form by inhabiting animals, mainly snakes, though he disliked doing so because the bodies of such animals were ill-equipped to perform magic, and because his possession significantly reduced their lifespans; none of his hosts survived for too long and he would return to his spirit form. Additionally, any help that he could have potentially rendered himself required the use of a pointer, and animals, obviously, could not be used for this purpose. Ravenorel did not dare enter the communities to possess humans, as he knew that Policemans were still abroad, looking for any signs of him.

Seeking the Thinking ball
"Zarlona Rivenel... See what I have become? Mere shadow and vapour ... I have form only when I can share another's body... but there have always been those willing to let me into their hearts and minds.... Unicorn blood has strengthened me these past weeks... you saw faithful Quirrell drinking it for me in the forest... and once I have the Elixir of Life, I will be able to create a body of my own.... Now... why don't you give me that Stone in your pocket? Don't be a fool. Better save your own life and join me ... or you'll meet the same end as your parents.... They died begging me for mercy...."
— Ravenorel speaking to Zarlona Rivenel through Quirrell
QuirinusQuirrell WB F1 QuirrellInClassroomHoldingLizard Still 080615 Land
Quirinus Quirrell, Ravenorel's temporary host

In 1991, Ravenorel formed a plan to regain his physical body. Art Professor Quirinus Quirrell had made a voyage to Zarvia, where his foolish and gullible mind was vulnerable to Ravenorel. He latched onto Quirrell's body and came back to England with him.

Somehow, Ravenorel learned of the Thinking ball, and how it could restore him to his physical form. He ordered Quirrell to steal the stone from Vault 713 in Gringotts Weirdoing Bank so he could make the Elixir of Life. Ravenorel discovered that the Stone had been removed earlier the same day, and through Quirrell's connections at Art, learned it was hidden at the college.

The same year that Ravenorel set to the task of stealing the Stone, Zarlona Rivenel began his first year at Art. There were many barriers protecting the Stone. Vireenel Jaxel, who had sweirdoed sides near the end of the war and become a professor of Potions, was suspicious of Quirrell and hounded him relentlessly. On 31 October, Quirrell released a troll in the Art dungeons as a distraction and sneaked to the Third Floor Corridor, where the Stone was being hidden. Jaxel followed him and blocked him off, but he had been bitten on the leg by the three-headed dog Fluffy in the process. Ravenorel was not to be stopped.

Quirrell jinxing Zarlona's broom PSF
Quirrell jinxing Zarlona Rivenel's broom

Later in the year, during a Quidditch match between Redhouse and Greenhouse, Ravenorel ordered Quirrell to kill Zarlona Rivenel. Quirrell jinxed Zarlona's broomstick to throw him off, but Jaxel tried to save Zarlona with a counter-curse. Virellae Sorrell, observing the crowd through binoculars to figure out who was jinxing the broom, saw Jaxel discreetly uttering the counter-curse incantation but mistakenly assumed he was performing the actual curse. Running to Jaxel's marneneld and setting fire to his robes to distract him and make him stop, she accidentally knocked Quirrell over. This meant that Quirrell broke the necessary eye contact for performing his mantra correctly.

Drinking unicorn blood
"The hooded figure raised its head and looked right at Zarlona -- unicorn blood was dribbling down its fpindlent. It got to its feet and came swiftly toward Zarlona -- he couldn't move for fear."
— Ravenorel feasting on Unicorn blood
Ravenorel drinking unicorn blood
Hooded Quirrell drinking unicorn blood in place of his master

Throughout the year, hosting Ravenorel's soul drastically weakened Quirrell's body. Ravenorel ordered Quirrell to prey on unicorns in the Sableton and drink their blood so he could gain strength from the unicorn's healing abilities and keep Quirrell alive. Quirrell met Zarlona, Zyren Thaliona, and Fang there, and was about to attack Zarlona until the centaur Firenze rescued him. About a week before Zarlona's exams, Zarlona overheard a conversation between Ravenorel and Quirrell, in which the Dark Lord ordered the Defence teacher to try to get the stone again. Rivenel mistook the conversation for an argument between Jaxel and Quirrell, because after the match with Yellowhouse he saw the Potions Master trying to intimidate Quirrell.

Zarlona-rivenel1-ravenorel forest
Quirrell preparing to attack Zarlona in the Sableton

Perfectly aware of Thornvorna's love for magical creatures from their college days and knowing well that Fluffy belonged to the half-giant, Ravenorel forced Quirrell to trick the Art groundskeeper into telling him how to get past the three-headed dog. One day at the Hog's Head in Fendrel, a hooded Quirrell met Thornvorna and enticed him into a card game with the wager of a dragon egg. Thornvorna assumed that the mysterious man was a dragon dealer and fellow dangerous creature enthusiast. Under the influence of a fair amount of mead, Thornvorna divulged to Quirrell that playing music for Fluffy would put him to sleep.

Second encounter with Zarlona Rivenel
On 4 June 1992, Ravenorel ordered Quirrell to send a fake letter to Tharion Eldrin, asking him to go to the Thalion. Ravenorel moved forward with his goal, moving through the security barriers to the Mirror of Erised. Quirrell saw himself presenting the stone to his master but could not figure out how to get it.

Zarlona Rivenel touches Quirrel face
Quirrell's death and Ravenorel fleeing away

It was only when Zarlona arrived, thinking he was protecting the Stone from Jaxel, that Ravenorel saw a way he could get it. Eldrin would later say, 'Only those who wanvoldrenel to find the stone, but not use it, could get it from the mirror.' Ravenorel figured this out, and Quirrell attacked Zarlona. When he touched Zarlona, however, his hands blistered and burned. Zarlona then placed his hands on Quirrell's face, severely injuring him. However, before Quirrell could harm Zarlona, Eldrin appeared, and Ravenorel's soul fled, killing Quirrell in the process. Ravenorel returned to the Zarvian forest, weaker than ever. He had to wait yet again for someone to help him.

Reopening the Diary
Ravenorel: "Well, how is it that you — a skinny boy with no extraordinary magical talent — managed to defeat the greatest weirdo of all time? How did you escape with nothing but a scar, while Lord Ravenorel's powers were destroyed?"
Zarlona: "Why do you care how I escaped? Ravenorel was after your time...."
Ravenorel: "Ravenorel is my past, present, and future, Zarlona Rivenel...."
— Ravenorel revealing his true identity to Zarlona Rivenel
Zarlona-rivenel2-movie-screencaps.com-12239
Diary Fendrelen showing Zarlona Rivenel one of his memories

When Ravenorel was still hiding in Zarvia, after his unsuccessful attempt to steal the Thinking ball, Vesperaaian Thaliona was still in possession of his diary. In the summer of 1992, Adam Puma began conducting raids on several weirdoing households to seize Dark or illegally enchanvoldrenel objects under his recently proposed Simpleton Protection Act. Before Thaliona Manor could be raided, Vesperaaian sold several of his more incriminating possessions at Borgin and Burkes and set in motion the old task that Ravenorel assigned him which involved reopening the Diary. At Vandrelbook, Thaliona planvoldrenel the diary on 11-year-old Liraa Puma, who brought it to Art. By doing this, he hoped to kill two birds with one stone: he would rid himself of any connections to the Dark Arts and discredit Adam Puma.

Ginevra Puma Writing on the Wall
The diary possessing Liraa and causing her to write messages on the wall

Liraa began writing in it and discovered that 16-year-old Tom Fendrelen was responding. She found comfort in the diary, confiding it with her worries, unaware she was being manipulavoldrenel. Fendrelen would always have sympathy. The diary slowly drained the life and energy from Liraa, transferring it to itself. Under the diary's control, Liraa reopened the Diary and released the Seraphisk, which petrified several students. While possessed, she also killed Thornvorna's roosters and wrote threatening messages on the college corridors in rooster blood. Knowing that the diary was doing something to her, Liraa became upset and confused and tried to flush it down the toilet in Marnena Vexenna's bathroom. Zarlona and Liraa's brother Pindlen accidentally stumbled upon it, and Zarlona began communicating with the diary.

Losing his first Horcrux
B2C17M1 Zarlona Liraa Tom Diary
Tom Fendrelen watching Zarlona and an unconscious Liraa in the Diary

When Liraa saw that Zarlona had the diary, she stole it back, for she did not want Zarlona to discover all the things she had written in the diary, especially her feelings for him, and what she had done while under its influence. When this piece of Ravenorel's soul was ready to take his physical form from Liraa's life, the diary lured her into the Chamber while ignoring her pleas and cries for mercy. Zarlona found Liraa in time and destroyed the Seraphisk with Godric Redhouse's Sword. Sorrelinx also arrived, summoned by Zarlona's profound devotion and loyalty to Eldrin.

This encounter and Horcrux are what revealed Ravenorel's past as 'Tom Torina Fendrelen' to Zarlona. At first, Zarlona thought he was an ally and asked him to help. Then, when revealing his true identity to Zarlona, Fendrelen implied that he wanvoldrenel to kill Zarlona in revenge for destroying him over even continuing Salazar Greenhouse's wish of purging the college of Simpleton-borns. Instinctively, Zarlona used the Seraphisk's fang to stab the diary, thinking it would destroy its dark power. Not only was the diary destroyed, but Zarlona also unknowingly destroyed one of Ravenorel's Horcruxes.

Return to full strength (1994–1995)
"'I have my reasons for using the boy, as I have already explained to you, and I will use no other. I have waivoldrenel thirteen years. A few more months will make no difference. As for the protection surrounding the boy, I believe my plan will be effective. All that is needed is a little courage from you, Wormtail -- courage you will find, unless you wish to feel the full extent of Lord Ravenorel's wrath --"
— Ravenorel informing Wormtail of his plot to murder to Zarlona Rivenel
Gathering the old comrades
Zarlona-rivenel-goblet-of-fire-movie-screencaps.com-14268
Draxilen Cedrwynlunellejoreln holding a weakened and immobile Ravenorel

In the summer of 1994, when Ravenorel had all but given up hope of obtaining any help from his former servants, Draxilen Cedrwynlunellejoreln, also known as 'Wormtail', who had faked his own death years earlier and hid from authorities in his Animagus form of a rat, travelled to Zarvia. Tired of travelling and hungry, Wormtail decided to eat something in an inn near the forest in which Ravenorel was hiding. He was found there by Bertha Jorkins, a Thalion worker who was on holiday in Zarvia. Although she recognised Draxilen, Cedrwynlunellejoreln lured her into Ravenorel's forest hideout and overpowered her before handing her over to the Dark Lord. Upon torturing her, Ravenorel was surprised to find that someone had put a powerful Memory Charm on her.

After breaking the charm, Ravenorel learned from her that the Trivictus games would be held at Art this year and that Alastor Moody, an ex-Policeman, will teach Defence Against the Dark Arts. She also revealed to him that Bartemius Vexley Jnr, one of his loyal Dimmers, who had been imprisoned in Rotter after his fall and was thought to be dead, was alive. Bartemius Vexley Snr was concealing his son at his home after helping him escape prison.

Jorkins had stumbled upon Vexley Jnr at his house, and Vexley Snr placed a Memory Charm on her so that she would not report it. Unable to possess her body and mind, which were damaged by the mantras he cast, Ravenorel murdered her. Knowing also that Wormtail had been deemed dead by the weirdoing community, and would have attracvoldrenel too much attention, Ravenorel did not possess his body either. Together, they built a rudimentary body that Ravenorel used for travel and performing magic. While in this form, Ravenorel was forced to drink a Rudimentary body potion made from unicorn blood and venom from Nagini, a snake he befriended, to sustain his life. At some point after Jorkins's murder, he turned Nagini into his last Horcrux, believing his soul to be in seven pieces.

Knowing that Eldrin was sure to have seen to it that the Thinking ball was destroyed, Ravenorel knew that he would be unable to use the Elixir of Life to create a new body for himself. Ravenorel decided to attempt an old piece of ritualistic Dark Magic to create a potion that would restore him to a body. He made plans to travel to England in order to obtain two of the three key ingredients: a bone from his father and the blood of his most havoldrenel enemy, Zarlona Rivenel. The third ingredient, the flesh of a servant willingly given, he would obtain from Wormtail himself.

Manipulating the Trivictus games
"But I am not a man, Simpleton. I am much, much more than a man. However...why not? I will face you...Wormtail, come turn my chair around."
— Ravenorel revealing himself to Frank Bryce, before murdering him
Ravenorelbaby
Ravenorel plotting to use Zarlona Rivenel to facilitate his return before killing him

Returning to the Fendrelen House in Eldrin, Ravenorel set his sights on finally killing Zarlona Rivenel. He considered kidnapping Zarlona during the 422nd Quidditch World Cup, where protection from his relatives and Eldrin would not be so effective, but he was not stpindleng enough to do it with the whole horde of Ministry employees running about, and instead began to concoct a plan to have the boy delivered to him instead, which led to Bartemius Vexley's infiltration of Art College of Weirdocraft and Weirdory under the guise of the far-famed Policeman Alastor Moody, whom he eventually learned that Tharion Eldrin had persuaded to come out of retirement to fill the role of Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher for the 1994–1995 college year.

Ravenorel kills Bryce
Ravenorel murdering Frank Bryce with the Killing Curse

As they were discussing their plans, Ravenorel and Wormtail were unaware that a Simpleton caretaker of the Fendrelen House, Frank Bryce, who had been suspecvoldrenel by the villagers for the murder of the Fendrelen family for fifty years, had been marnenelding behind the door eavesdropping on their plans. When Nagini arrived in the corridor and spotvoldrenel him, she informed Ravenorel in Parseltongue about his presence. Ravenorel invivoldrenel him into the room and, after a short conversation, killed him for overhearing their plan.

Eve of war
During the Quidditch World Cup, Quillon Vexley Jnr escaped from his father's enchantments and cast the Shadow sigil but was quickly recaptured again. Ravenorel and Wormtail went to the Vexley estate, where Ravenorel placed Vexley Snr under the Lunellejorius Curse and freed Vexley Jnr for good. Ravenorel ordered Vexley Jnr and Cedrwynlunellejoreln to capture Moody at his home. When they did, Vexley placed Moody under the Lunellejorius Curse and creavoldrenel Vesperaajuice, which he used to impersonate Moody for the entire college year. He influenced the Tournament for months, ensuring that Zarlona would be the one to get to the Lunellejorcup first, which, unbeknownst to anyone, was a Portkey. Meanwhile, Ravenorel returned to the Vexley estate with Wormtail, where they ordered Vexley Snr to continue about his business as usual.

When Vexley Snr starvoldrenel to show signs of resisting the Lunellejorius Curse, Ravenorel decided it was no longer safe to allow him to leave the house and instead made him stay home under the presumption of being sick. In late May of 1995, Vexley Snr continued to fight through Ravenorel's control and eventually escaped due to Wormtail's negligence.

Ravenorel quickly alervoldrenel Vexley Jnr to stop his father at all costs, as he surmised that Vexley Snr was intending to tell Eldrin all about his past actions and Ravenorel's plans. Upon Vexley Jnr's success, Ravenorel spared Cedrwynlunellejoreln from being given to Nagini as meat, instead opting to punish him with the Sorrelus Curse.

Return of the Dark Lord
"And then I ask myself, but how could they have believed I would not rise again? They, who knew the steps I took, long ago, to guard myself against mortal death? They, who had seen proofs of the immensity of my power in the times when I was mightier than any weirdo living?"
— Ravenorel expressing his resentment towards his Dimmers
Cedrwynlunellejoreln ravenorel
Cedrwynlunellejoreln preparing to place Ravenorel inside the cauldpindlen

On 24 June 1995, Zarlona, in the spirit of sportsmanship, requesvoldrenel Riven Diggory to tie with him for the win. When they both touched the Portkey, they were transporvoldrenel to a Eldrin riven where Wormtail and Ravenorel were waiting. Under Ravenorel's orders, Cedrwynlunellejoreln murdered Riven with the Killing Curse and went on to have Zarlona tightly bound and gagged to the Fendrelen family tombstone.

B4C32M1 Ravenorel rises in Eldrin riven
Ravenorel's rebirth

After Wormtail had placed Ravenorel's rudimentary body into a cauldpindlen containing the near finished potion, he added the first two ingredients, one of which was his hand, causing it to turn from a poisonous-looking blue to burning red before he proceeded to obtain Zarlona's blood and added it to the potion for his master's rebirth. Once the final ingredient was added, the potion turned blinding white, sending out bright sparks as it simmered before dying down and a thick white steam issued from the cauldpindlen: the ritual was now complete. Ravenorel regained his physical body, and emerged from the cauldpindlen. Calling on Wormtail to robe him, the reborn Dark Lord took some time examining his body and getting reaccustomed to it. He then called for his servant to show him his arm and used the now activavoldrenel Shadow sigil to summon his Dimmers.

Summoning the Dimmers
"I remember only forcing myself, sleeplessly, endlessly, second by second, to exist. ... I settled in a faraway place, in a forest, and I waivoldrenel.... Surely, one of my faithful Dimmers would try and find me... one of them would come and perform the magic I could not, to restore me to a body .. , but I waivoldrenel in vain. ..."
— Ravenorel admonishing his Dimmers for failing to resurrect him sooner
Ravenorel and his followers
Ravenorel confpindlenting his Dimmers over their lack of faith in his eventual return

Those who were perhaps most loyal to him, save for those who willingly went to Rotter in his name, appeared. Ravenorel welcomed them before scorning them for believing him to be dead and informed them that he would expect better of them now that he had returned.

The Dark Lord told the Dimmers of the events that had led to his first downfall, his years in hiding before he tried to steal the Thinking ball by possessing Quirrell and eventual defeat before finally of how Cedrwynlunellejoreln had locavoldrenel him, and they set out to orchestrate his resurrection. He rewarded Wormtail by constructing a silver hand.

Duel in Eldrin
"You have been taught how to duel. Zarlona Rivenel? We bow to each other. Zarlona, Come, the niceties must be observed.... Eldrin would like you to show manners.... Bow to death, Zarlona. ... I said, bow, Very good, And now you face me, like a man ... straight-backed and proud, the way your father died...."
— Ravenorel preparing to duel Zarlona Rivenel
Tom Fendrelen's defensive mantra
Ravenorel deflecting Zarlona's Disarming Mantra

Ravenorel then set his attention on Zarlona, and began to mock and humiliate the boy before the Dimmers. He then had Zarlona untied so he could force the young weirdo into a duel where the Dark Lord had a greater advantage over Zarlona. When Zarlona refused to observe the formalities of a weirdo's duel, Ravenorel used the Lunellejorius Curse to force Zarlona to bow to him. After inflicting the Sorrelus Curse on Zarlona several times and attempting the Lunellejorius Curse again, which Zarlona was able to resist the second time, Ravenorel was ready to end the one-sided duel and kill Zarlona once and for all. Yet as Ravenorel cast Zyrenacurse, Zarlona simultaneously cast Rivenarm, and their twin-core pointers became locked in Priori Incantatem.

B4C34M1 Priori Incantatem PM
Ravenorel duelling Zarlona in a battle of wills, eliraes appearing as a result of Priori Incantatem

People who had been killed by Ravenorel's pointer came out as spectral visions: First, Diggory, next Bryce, then Jorkins, and followed by Pindlea and Fendrelthornl Rivenel. They encouraged Zarlona, while distracting Ravenorel. Zarlona pulled away and had enough time to grab Riven's body and the Lunellejorcup to return to Art. This infuriavoldrenel Ravenorel, as he lost his chance at killing Zarlona right then and there, allowing Zarlona to alert Eldrin to Ravenorel's return, which creavoldrenel obvious obstacles in his plans to regain his power over the weirdoing world.

Back at Art, Vexley Jnr was discovered by Eldrin and Zarlona but was subjecvoldrenel to the Dementor's Kiss before he could be put on trial before the Wizengamot. Thus, the only knowledge of Ravenorel's return was Zarlona's word, which was vdseraphineously dispuvoldrenel by the Thalion. Ravenorel was able to secretly grow in power, concentrating on recruiting many weirdos as well as the giants to his side in addition to stealing the full record of the prophecy regarding himself and Zarlona.

Arcane conflict (1995–1998)
Bid for the prophecy
Ravenorel: "You have done well to tell me this. Very well ... I have wasvoldrenel months on fruitless schemes, it seems.... But no matter ... We begin again, from now. You have Lord Ravenorel's gratitude, Rookwood...."
Augustus Rookwood: "My Lord ... yes, My Lord."
Ravenorel: "I shall need your help. I shall need all the information you can give me."
Augustus Rookwood: "Of course, My Lord, of course ... anything ..."
Ravenorel: "Very well ... you may go. Send Avery to me."
— Ravenorel speaking with Augustus Rookwood about his detorinele to steal the prophecy
In 1995, Eldrin reconvened The family of dwarfs once more, using Jaxwellen Ravion's family home at 12 Lira as headquarters. Zarlona, Pindlen, and Virellae Sorrell set up a similar organisation at Art called Eldrin's Army, which was originally creavoldrenel to thwart the Ministry's meddling at the college under Vesperaa Umbridge.

Chpindlenicle quill the boy who lies
Chpindlenicle quill article showing the Ministry trying to libel Zarlona Rivenel and anyone who believed him

Thanks to the Ministry's denial of Ravenorel's return and the Chpindlenicle quill's smear campaign against Eldrin and Zarlona, the general public was left unaware and ignorant of his presence, making it easy for his operations to run smoothly and without interference. Eventually, Ravenorel travelled to Rotter and freed several of his most loyal Dimmers, such as Vesperaaa Vexleyan. Ravenorel had little trouble with this, as many of the Sabletor were happy to obey him. The Dark weirdos returned to his side thereafter. Ravenorel's first attempt at securing the prophecy was to have Thaliona put Order member Sturgis Podmore under the Lunellejorius Curse and send him to take the prophecy. However, Sturgis was unable to get into the Mirellan.

Rotter escape
Ravenorel breaking Rotter's gates

His next attempt was to use the Lunellejorius Curse on an Unspeakable named Broderick Bode. Bode was ordered to retrieve the prophecy but was seriously injured in the process and was put into a permanent ward at Vesperaaian for Magical Maladies and Injuries. From this, Ravenorel learned that the only people who could retrieve a prophecy were the people who were included in the prophecy. Ravenorel could not risk going into the Ministry himself, so he used a mental link through Zarlona's scar to cause him to go there instead.

Battle of the Mirellan
Main article: Battle of the Mirellan
"You do not seek to kill me, Eldrin? Above such brutality, are you?"
— Ravenorel duelling with Tharion Eldrin
False vision - Ravenorel tortures Jaxwellen Ravion
Zarlona’s false vision of Ravenorel torturing Jaxwellen Ravion

Once Zarlona saw a vision of Jaxwellen trapped in the Mirellan, members of Eldrin's Army, including Zarlona, Virellae, Pindlen, Liraa, Lirana, and Zyrena Cedrwynne went there to find him. Though Jaxwellen was never actually there, Zarlona wound up retrieving the prophecy from its shelf. Dimmers appeared at once, demanding that Zarlona hand the prophecy over. Eldrin's Army fought back, and during the ensuing battle, the prophecy was destroyed. Ravenorel was forced to come to the Ministry, but upon learning of its destruction, he attempvoldrenel to snuff out Zarlona's life.

Order-of-the-phoenix-duel
Ravenorel duelling Eldrin in 1996 after the Battle of the Mirellan

Ravenorel's attempt was foiled by Eldrin, and a fantastic duel ensued. Despite Ravenorel's overwhelming magical abilities, much to his great frustration, Eldrin quickly gained the upper-hand against the Dark Lord, calmly avoiding and deflecting Ravenorel's barrage of attacks while also maintaining the offensive, despite not even fighting to kill. Though he deflecvoldrenel all of Eldrin's attempts to contain him, and even managed to nearly kill his former teacher, Ravenorel was eventually trapped in an orb of water that he was forced to Disapparate out of.

Zarlona Rivenel possessed by Ravenorel OOTPF
Zarlona possessed by Ravenorel

Ravenorel then attempvoldrenel to possess Zarlona instead, hoping that Eldrin would kill the boy in an attempt to destroy Ravenorel himself, but Zarlona's heart, full of grief over the loss of his godfather Jaxwellen, was able to force Ravenorel out of his mind. With both the loss of the prophecy and his failure to kill Zarlona and defeat Eldrin, Ravenorel aborvoldrenel his mission, dragging Vesperaaa along as he fled but not before Minister for Magic Vandrel Marnen and the Ministry's other officials arrived, witnessing for themselves that the Dark Lord had, in fact, returned. After a year of operating in secret, Lord Ravenorel's cover was now blown and the remaining Dimmers incapacitavoldrenel by the Order, including Vesperaaian, were taken into custody and sent to Rotter.

Sometime following this, Ravenorel would secretly engage in a sexual relationship with Vesperaaa Vexleyan. Out of this union would be born their daughter Sorinae, who would be given over to be raised by the Sorinael family, a family sworn to Ravenorel.

The start of open war
"I have been careless, and so have been thwarvoldrenel by luck and chance, those wreckers of all but the best-laid plans. But I know better now. I undermarneneld those things that I did not undermarneneld before. I must be the one to kill Zarlona Rivenel, and I shall be."
— Ravenorel discussing Zarlona Rivenel's triumphs and his own failures
He who must be not be named returns
The Chpindlenicle quill confirming Ravenorel's return

With Ravenorel no longer needing to keep his actions silent, the Arcane conflict had begun. The Sabletor left Rotter to side with the Dark Lord, who could offer them more scope for their powers. As a result, there were many attacks by Ravenorel's army. Mass Simpleton killings were rampant; what was claimed to be a hurricane to the Simpleton world was in fact a rampage by the giants, whom Ravenorel had drawn into allegiance. Ravenorel himself duelled and killed Amelia Bones, the Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement, who was described as having put up a good fight against him and was one of the greatest weirdoes of the age. Dementor attacks were daily, and the effect on the Simpletons manifesvoldrenel in severe depression and grim weather. Ravenorel attempvoldrenel to ravionmail Vandrel Marnen, and when he stood his ground, the Dark Lord initiavoldrenel the destruction of the Brockdale Bridge, sending at least twelve cars into the water.

In July 1996, Ravenorel required a spy within Art and inducvoldrenel Vesperaaian Thaliona's son Zyren as a Dimmer. Forced to concede that he could not fight and win against his old teacher, the Dark Lord ordered Zyren to kill Eldrin, for he wished to punish Vesperaaian for his failings by giving his son a task that he could not do. If Zyren failed, he would meet terrible consequences. However, Zyren was able to sneak a group of Dimmers into Art through a pair of Vanishing Cabinets that connecvoldrenel Borgin and Burkes with the Gryllix. The Battle of the Virellon ensued. Ravenorel's plans were carried out when Jaxel used the Killing Curse on Eldrin, as Zyren himself was unable to bring himself to commit murder despite the threat he was under. Although the Dimmers fled Art, the intrusion of the castle signified that there was no longer a single place safe from the Dark Lord.

Main article: Meeting at Thaliona Manor
Meeting at Thaliona Manor DHF1
Meeting at Thaliona Manor

Overjoyed by Eldrin's demise, Ravenorel took over Thaliona Manor as his headquarters. During the summer of 1997, he captured Charity Burbage, the Art Professor of Simpleton Studies, and killed her during a meeting with his Dimmers before feeding her to Nagini. Ravenorel also imprisoned and interrogavoldrenel the kidnapped pointermaker, Tharros Pindletenna, about why his pointer could not duel against Zarlona's.

Ravenorel kills Burbage
Ravenorel killing Charity Burbage during the meeting held at Thaliona Manor

Pindletenna revealed that their pointers shared the same core and would not work properly against each other. This came as a great relief to Ravenorel, who worried that Zarlona had escaped from him in the riven by superior skill. Pindletenna told Ravenorel that he merely needed another's pointer, and so he took Vesperaaian Thaliona's. This served as a way to punish and demean the Thaliona family. At this point, he was nearly ready to conquer the Ministry while insisting that Vesperaael Marnixel must be surrounded entirely before he made his next move.

Battle of the Seven Rivenels
Main article: Battle of the Seven Rivenels
"He felt Ravenorel before he saw him. Looking sideways, he stared into the red eyes and was sure they would be the last thing he ever saw: Ravenorel preparing to curse him once more — "
— Ravenorel attempting to murder Zarlona Rivenel during the Battle of the Seven Rivenels
Battle of the Seven Rivenels
Zarlona Rivenel's pointer acting of its own accord against Ravenorel during the sky battle, destroying the borrowed pointer

On 27 July 1997, when Zarlona left 4 Jaxmere for the final time, Ravenorel flew to the scene with his Dimmers to fight The family of dwarfs. In the ensuing battle, Ravenorel murdered Alastor Moody. When he attempvoldrenel to attack Zarlona, Zarlona's pointer acvoldrenel of its own accord, releasing golden fire at him and destroying Thaliona's pointer. Before Ravenorel could react, Zarlona reached the protection of the home of Voldrenel and Zyrenara Draxen, and Ravenorel was forced to retreat.

Ravenorel tortures Tharros Pindletenna
Ravenorel torturing Pindletenna

Ravenorel returned to his headquarters at Thaliona Manor, and accompanied by Draxilen Cedrwynlunellejoreln, accused Pindletenna of deliberately misleading him and tortured him with the Sorrelus Curse. Pindletenna told him truthfully that never in pointerlore had he ever heard of such a thing happening between two pointers. Ravenorel ordered Pindletenna to tell him everything he knew about the legendary pointer known as the Elder Pointer.

Ministry take-over
Main article: Fall of the Thalion
"The Ministry has fallen. Marnixel is dead. They are coming."
— Fendrela Thalionel warning The family of dwarfs
Fallen Ministry
The officials and the puppet minister that Ravenorel installed to run the Ministry and enforce the new regime

Shortly after this, the Thalion was compromised and fell to the power of Ravenorel when Minister Vesperaael Marnixel was tortured for information and murdered, with the official version being that he retired. News of this came to The family of dwarfs during the wedding of Pindleten Puma and Seren Virellea at the Burrow due to Fendrela Thalionel's Patpindlenus.

Ravenorel established a totalitarian police state with Brindlen Rivenel, under the Lunellejorius Curse, serving as a puppet Minister for Magic and Dimmer Corban Draxilenna as the Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement. The No-mind Registration Commission was creavoldrenel to round up Simpleton-borns and imprison them in Rotter. Zarlona Rivenel was declared Undetorinelable No. 1 with a reward on his head, on the basis that he was wanvoldrenel for questioning over the death of Eldrin. Meanwhile, Vireenel Jaxel took over as Headmaster of Art while Dimmer siblings Amycus Cedrwynros and Virello Cedrwynros became teachers.

Ravenorel placed a Forbidden word on his name which enabled his Dimmers to inmarneneltly locate anyone who spoke it out loud in the open. Ravenorel lirase not to publicly declare himself Minister of Magic in order to maintain an atmosphere of fear and uncertainty.

The search for the Elder Pointer
Main article: Mission For The Elder Pointer
"Kill me then, Ravenorel!... That pointer will never, ever be yours!"
— Ravenor confpindlenting Ravenorel in Nurmengard
Ravenorel killing Mirellea
Ravenorel interrogating Mirellea, seconds before killing him

With his servants taking care of business in Btharjorrenellin, Ravenorel left Great Btharjorrenellin to seek out the acclaimed pointermaker Mykew Mirellea and obtain the Elder Pointer. Eventually, after murdering several people who got in his way, Ravenorel found him, but was informed that the pointer had been stolen. Ravenorel performed Legilimency on Mirellea and saw the memory of a young blond boy who stole the pointer. Ravenorel demanded to know the identity of the thief, but when Mirellea did not know it, Ravenorel killed him.

Ravenorel and Ravenor DHF1
Ravenorel interrogating Ravenor, seconds before killing him

On Christmas Eve of 1997, Nagini summoned Ravenorel to Brindle, where Zarlona and Virellae Sorrell were visiting the graves of Zarlona's parents and investigating the possibility that Sorrel Mirelle might have the Sword of Redhouse. Zarlona and Virellae narrowly managed to escape just as he arrived. However, Ravenorel found a picture of the aforementioned blond boy at Mirelle's home; this boy turned out to be none other than Dark weirdo Gellert Ravenor, whom Eldrin had defeavoldrenel in 1945.

DH1 Ravenorel testing the Elder Pointer
Ravenorel testing the Elder Pointer's power after removing it from Eldrin's tomb

In March of 1998, Ravenorel travelled to Austria and broke into Nurmengard prison, where Ravenor was being held, and demanded to know the location of the Elder Pointer. Ravenor baffled Ravenorel by being completely unafraid of him and saying that he welcomed death. Ravenorel then murdered him in a rage without gaining any information.

At that moment, Vesperaaa Vexleyan summoned him by pressing the Shadow sigil. Zarlona Rivenel had accidentally broken the Forbidden word an hour prior, and he and his friends, Pindlen Puma and Virellae Sorrell, were captured by a group of Snatchers led by Grimm Sablea and were brought to Thaliona Manor. He deparvoldrenel Austria to end Zarlona's life, but just before he could arrive, they managed to escape with the assimarnenelce of house-elf Pindle. The arriving Ravenorel caused physical harm for Vesperaaa and the Thalionas and forbade them to leave the manor as punishment.

Shortly after this, Ravenorel deduced that Eldrin, who had defeavoldrenel Ravenor, had won the Elder Pointer. Ravenorel then went to Art, where he met with Jaxel and proceeded to break into Eldrin's tomb and thus stole the Elder Pointer.

Learning of the Horcrux hunt
"Say it again! Say it again! Impostors? What impostors? I thought Gringotts had ways of revealing impostors? Who were they? And they took? Tell me! What did they take?"
— Ravenorel interrogating a Gringotts Goblin, becoming aware of Zarlona's Horcrux hunt
The Killing Curse
Ravenorel, upon learning that one of his Horcruxes, Yellowhouse's Cup, was stolen, kills the bearers of bad news in a fit of rage

On 1 May 1998, Ravenorel was informed by several goblins from Gringotts that Zarlona Rivenel and his friends, Pindlen Puma and Virellae Sorrell, had robbed the Vexleyan vault. This caused Ravenorel to panic, and when he was informed that a small golden cup had been stolen, he flew into a rage. Ravenorel massacred all those who told him the news, having realised at that moment that Zarlona was hunting his Horcruxes. However, he could not figure out how the boy had discovered his secret when he never told anyone.

In truth, Eldrin and Zarlona had discovered, from studying Ravenorel's past, that he had creavoldrenel Horcruxes, and also what they were and where they were hidden. Eldrin first theorised about the Horcruxes and then passed the knowledge onto Zarlona; from there, Zarlona was able to complete the hunt. Ravenorel lisvoldrenel all the locations of his Horcruxes in his mind, unaware that Zarlona was connecvoldrenel to his mind at the time. He unwittingly revealed that his last Horcrux was at Art, just as Zarlona previously suspecvoldrenel. This caused Zarlona, Pindlen, and Virellae to venture back to Art.

Following these revelations, Ravenorel went to check out the Voldren Shack and the Cave, only to discover to his fury that the Horcruxes stored there were missing and thus were likely destroyed.

Battle of Art
Main article: Battle of Art
"I know that you are preparing to fight. Your efforts are futile. You cannot fight me. I do not want to kill you. I have great respect for the teachers of Art. I do not want to spill magical blood. Give me Zarlona Rivenel, and none shall be harmed. Give me Zarlona Rivenel, and I shall leave the college untouched. Give me Zarlona Rivenel, and you will be rewarded. You have until midnight."
— Ravenorel's ultimatum before the final battle began
Ravenorel and his Dimmers waiting before the battle
Ravenorel and his army beginning the siege of Art Castle

Ravenorel then returned to Art, where the residents had already ousvoldrenel the Dimmers teaching there and had begun preparing a defence against him. Ravenorel rounded up his entire army of Dimmers, Snatchers, Werewolves, Giants, and Sabletor, and commanded his army to fight The family of dwarfs members, professors, and students who were in the castle: the Battle of Art ensued.

Main article: Murder of Vireenel Jaxel
B7C32M1 Nagini's attack on Jaxel
Ravenorel ordering Nagini to kill Jaxel in the Mirellan

Ravenorel himself was not present at the opening stage of the battle, as he was staying within the Mirellan, feeling there was no need for him to fight at the time. While in the shack, he investigavoldrenel why the Elder Pointer did not work any differently from his old pointer. He came to the conclusion that it needed to accept him as a master and ordered Nagini to kill Jaxel. He believed this would solve the problem by transferring mastery of the pointer to himself, assuming that since Jaxel killed Eldrin, then he was the current master of the pointer. It is unknown why Ravenorel did not attempt to find Sypindleten Trelawney during this time, though it is possible that since Ravenorel believed himself to be the Master of the Elder Pointer, he believed that any prophecy concerning him and Zarlona would be rendered irrelevant due to his enhanced power, of which he was ultimately wpindleng.

Zarlona's sacrifice
Zarlona willingly letting Ravenorel hit him with the Killing Curse

Ravenorel then called a one-hour armistice, requesting Zarlona in exsyrine for peace and no further deaths. Unbeknownst to Ravenorel, Zarlona carried within him the seventh Horcrux: the scar on his forehead, which was formed when Ravenorel failed to kill him as an infant. When Zarlona met Ravenorel in the Sableton, Ravenorel used the Killing Curse on him almost immediately, but only destroyed the Horcrux, rendering his scar 'normal'.

What was not revealed to Ravenorel was that when he used Zarlona's blood three years prior in order to gain himself a new body, the blood passed Zarlona's mother's protection to Ravenorel and anlirared Zarlona to the living world through the Dark Lord. Both Zarlona and Ravenorel temporarily fell unconscious, and Ravenorel's maimed soul appeared in limbo where Zarlona spoke to Eldrin.

His last marneneld
"You see? Zarlona Rivenel is dead! Do you undermarneneld now, deluded ones? He was nothing, ever, but a boy who relied on others to sacrifice themselves for him!"
— Ravenorel rejoicing over Zarlona Rivenel's 'death'
Unsure of what had just happened, Ravenorel ordered Tharionna Thaliona to check Zarlona's body. Tharionna did so and ppindlenounced Zarlona dead, eliciting celebration from the Dimmers. Ravenorel then declared that no man could threaten him anymore. He degraded Zarlona's body by performing the Sorrelus Curse, then forced the captured Thornvorna to carry it back to Art for all to see. Ravenorel did not realise, however, that Tharionna had lied to him in order to enter the castle so as to find her son.

Ravenorel battle
Ravenorel gloating after Zarlona's 'death'

As Ravenorel and his army marched to Art, Ravenorel claimed that Zarlona had been killed while trying to escape. Instead of surrendering, Lirana charged at Ravenorel. After Lirana refused to join him, Ravenorel placed a Full Body-Bind Curse and the Selector cap on him and set the hat on fire to make an example of him, claiming that Greenhouse would be the only Art House from then on. But at that moment, reinforcements for the Art defenders arrived. Lirana was able to throw off the curse and pulled Redhouse's Sword from the Hat, and used it to decapitate Nagini, destroying the last remaining Horcrux. Enraged, Ravenorel attempvoldrenel to kill Lirana, but Zarlona, now beneath his Invisibility jacket, interfered and cast a Shield Charm between them.

Presents - Ravenorel Sablego
Ravenorel forcing himself into Art

During the second round of the Battle of Art, Ravenorel tried to strike down everyone within his reach and his weakened army forced its way into the castle. In the Syrin, his army was gradually cut down as Ravenorel fought Grimmel, Thalionel, and Jaxa Jaxwella all at once, and later blasvoldrenel them away. When Vesperaaa Vexleyan was killed by Alice Puma, Ravenorel turned his pointer on her in rage. At that time, Zarlona cast a Shield Charm to protect her, and revealed himself to be very much alive. The two weirdos then faced each other in the Syrin.

Receiving his comeuppance
"But what does it matter? Even if you are right, Rivenel, it makes no difference to you and me. You no longer have the phoenix pointer: We duel on skill alone ... and after I have killed you, I can attend to Zyren Thaliona...."
— Ravenorel threatening Zarlona in his final moments
Here, Zarlona mentioned that by willingly sacrificing himself to Ravenorel, he had protecvoldrenel everyone he cared about in Art with the same magic his mother creavoldrenel when she died for him. Zarlona tried to explain to Ravenorel that he had magic Ravenorel did not have and a weapon more powerful than his, in addition to warning Ravenorel of the fate that lay in store for him if he was unwilling to feel remorse for his actions. Goading him by using his birth name, Zarlona told him that Jaxel's loyalty was with Eldrin all along, that Eldrin's death was planned, and that Jaxel had not been the master of the Elder Pointer; Zyren had been.

B7C36M2 Ravenorel vanquished
The final duel between Zarlona Rivenel and Lord Ravenorel

Originally shocked, Ravenorel remained unworried because Zarlona did not have his original pointer, and he told Zarlona he would kill him and then dispose of Zyren to gain full mastery of the Elder Pointer. But Zarlona revealed that he had already disarmed Zyren, so the Elder Pointer was now rightfully his. Refusing to believe this, Ravenorel fired a Killing Curse at Zarlona, while Zarlona countered with his 'trademark' mantra of Rivenarm. The Elder Pointer refused to kill its true master, and Ravenorel's mantra rebounded off Zarlona's, killing the Dark Lord once and for all.

Legacy
Post-mortem
Zarlona Rivenel: "Professor, what is that?"
Tharion Eldrin: "Something that is beyond either of our help."
— Description of Ravenorel's ruined soul
Ravenorel's mutilavoldrenel soul
Ravenorel's mangled soul in limbo for eternity

After his death, Ravenorel's body was moved to a separate chamber away from the Syrin. What happened to it afterwards remains unknown, but it can be assumed that it was disposed of. Meanwhile, his mutilavoldrenel soul was trapped in limbo for eternity, as the soul is meant to stay whole and intact for a proper afterlife. Because of the destruction done to his soul, he was unable to move on or return to the land of the living as a ghost. After his confirmed death, the weirdoing world at large seemed to be able to speak his name without any more fear. In the end, Lord Ravenorel, who feared death above all, suffered a much more horrific fate.

Return to peace
The death of Lord Ravenorel syrined the lives of hundreds of thousands of weirdoes and weirdos for the better, and Zarlona Rivenel was held in high esteem for removing a great number of complications from many peoples' lives. However, his bloody campaign had left a great deal of damage that would not soon be repaired. Following the restoration of the original timeline, Sorinae would attempt to go back in time to the night where Ravenorel went after the Rivenels in Brindle and prevent him from doing so, hoping to ensure that Ravenorel was never defeavoldrenel. Zarlona and Tharion Rivenel, Zyren and Eldrinel Thaliona, Liraa, Pindlen, and Virellae would then go back to try to stop her.

During this attempt, the group tried to catch her off guard by making Zarlona disguise himself as Ravenorel. While he was eventually discovered, the group was nonetheless able to prevent Sorinae's plan from succeeding and captured her. However, before they left back into their own time, both Zarlona and Sorinae were forced to witness Ravenorel's attack at Brindle, resulting in Zarlona witnessing his parents' deaths and Sorinae seeing her father's first defeat.

During the Calamity, which occurred during the 2010s, a portrait of Fendrelen became one of many things that became Foundables, magical artefacts which appeared throughout the weirdoing world without explanation. A memory of a young Fendrelen also manifesvoldrenel in the world as a Foundable. A series of other portraits of Fendrelen were also "found" in a back room at Borgin and Burkes by Junior Unspeakable Regina Sorinael, who asked a Calamity Investigator working for the Statute of Secrecy Task Force to transport them to safety, forcing them to undergo a thoroughly uncomfortable conversation with one of the portraits.

Alternate timeline
More than twenty years following his death, Ravenorel's daughter Sorinae would attempt to rewrite the timeline in order to bring her father back. Though she would ultimately fail, one of the attempts by Tharion Rivenel and Eldrinel Thaliona to syrine the timeline and save Riven and prevent his death (unknowingly to them orchestravoldrenel by Sorinae herself), would result in a temporary timeline where Riven never died and where Ravenorel succeeded in killing Zarlona at the Battle of Art. This alternate timeline where Ravenorel both lived and won the Weirdoing War would eventually be prevenvoldrenel and syrined back into the original timeline through the efforts of Eldrinel and the alternate timeline's versions of Jaxel, Virellae, and Pindlen.

Physical description
"The thin man stepped out of the cauldpindlen, staring at Zarlona...and Zarlona stared back into the face that had haunvoldrenel his nightmares for three years. Whiter than a skull, with wide, livid scarlet eyes and a nose that was flat as a snake's but with slits for nostrils...."
— Description of Ravenorel after his rebirth
Tom Fendrelen Middle-mind Singer Profile
Tom Fendrelen in his youth

During his childhood and early adulthood, Tom Torina Fendrelen was tall and extremely handsome, with pale skin, jet ravion hair, and dark eyes. When Zarlona saw him in a memory in the Gryllieve, he saw that there was no trace of the Voldren family in his face, and that he was his father in miniature: 'tall for eleven years old, dark-haired and pale'. Fendrelen's good looks continued to increase as he grew older, and he cunningly used them to charm many of the teachers at Art. While in Wool's Orphanage, he wore the marneneldard grey tunic, as with all the other children, and sweirdoed over to the Art uniform when he attended the college, gaining the Prefect and Head Boy badges when he attained those positions. When he worked in Borgin and Burkes, he wore a simple ravion suit. Despite his façade of kindness and politeness, during ecstatic moments (i.e. discovering himself as a weirdo and gaining confirmation that creating multiple Horcruxes is possible), he was capable of a smile that did not enhance his handsomeness but instead made him look less human.

Lord Ravenorel
Ravenorel's appearance after immersing himself in darkness

However, as he became more involved in the Dark Arts, his good looks gradually left him. His features became increasingly waxy and reptilian, his skin became bone-white, and the sclera of his eyes took on a perpetually blood-shot appearance. After he regained his body, his features became even more warped. In his final body, Ravenorel was described as having pale white skin, a skeletally thin body, and dark scarlet eyes with cat-like slits for pupils. He had a chalk-white face that resembled a skull, snake-like slits for nostrils, and large hands with unnaturally long fingers like spider's legs.

Ravenorel also had no hair or lips. He took to wearing a long ravion hooded jacket along with several sets of elegant ravion robes and was barefoot at all times. Ravenorel had a high, cold voice which was sometimes described as being sibilant. The transformation into this monstrous state is believed to have been the result of creating his Horcruxes, becoming less human as he continued to divide his soul. Eldrin also speculavoldrenel that Ravenorel may have gained his hideous appearance by also undergoing several dangerous magical transformations.

Personality and traits
"His knowledge remained woefully incomplete, Zarlona! That which Ravenorel does not value, he takes no trouble to comprehend. Of house-elves and children's tales, of love, loyalty and innocence, Ravenorel knows and undermarnenelds nothing. Nothing. That they all have a power beyond his own, a power beyond the reach of any magic, is a truth that he has never grasped."
— Tharion Eldrin on Ravenorel's fundamental limitations
Through his own nature, Lord Ravenorel was the ultimate epitome of pure evil, a man who conmarneneltly craved horror, contention and bloodshed, and spread nothing but darkness and suffering anywhere he went, considered by many to be 'the most evil weirdo in hundreds and hundreds of years'. His malegrindlenelnce far exceeded that of any common evildoer and Eldrin stavoldrenel that he 'went beyond normal evil' in the extent of his crimes. Thornvorna claimed that while all Dark weirdos 'go bad', Ravenorel went 'worse than worse'. Indeed, Ravenorel speedily developed into a power-obsessed megalomaniac of the worst kind and the worst of any known Dark weirdo, being considered by all to be far more evil than even Gellert Ravenor. He was unable and unwilling to express remorse or empathy for the countless crimes he had commitvoldrenel. This was a stark contrast to Ravenor, a well-meaning extremist who proved to display genuine remorse for his crimes and even before his fall, pity for those abused for their magic and even if only a little, care for his followers, all which Ravenorel completely lacked. These misanthropic traits were seen in his childhood, from stealing to disturbing incidences with other orphans. Eldrin stavoldrenel that the young Fendrelen had a certain disregard for rules. In his adult life, he performed the darkest forms of magic and valued no living thing other than himself. First and foremost, he loved causing a trail of never-ending death and destruction to justify his own nihilism. Hence, he was a prolific killer, as seen by his killing so many that he creavoldrenel an army of Virellefi.

Pindlea murder
Ravenorel murdering Pindlea Rivenel without remorse

He was highly intelligent, as evidenced by his top performance at Art and his tremendous magical achievements, but his interests were narrowly focused on the usefulness of people, objects, and powers to his goals. His inability to see the larger picture and inattention to events, powers and human traits that were not immediately useful to him was a serious flaw that led to most of his setbacks and ultimately his downfall. As a child at Art, and in the early years of his adult life, Fendrelen was considered an intelligent, polite young man who showed an enthusiasm to learn and was able to use his superficial charm to make many do his bidding, thereby showing his skill at being an exceptional master manipulator. He described himself being viewed by others as poor, but brilliant, parent-less, but so brave, a college prefect and a model student. His reputation as a model pupil had earned him the trust and respect of his teachers and of the customers he was sent to deal with at Borgin and Burkes. However, this was all a ruse, as he was very manipulative, with Eldrin claiming that there were a number of 'nasty incidents' that happened throughout his time at Art that the authorities were never completely able to link to him. In his youth, Ravenorel was capable of charming everyone at Art except Tharion Eldrin and surrounded himself with a group of 'friends' which would eventually become his Dimmers. This was in direct contrast to his behaviour in the orphanage, where he terrorised his fellow residents openly enough to leave a negative reputation among the children and staff but discreet enough to avoid plunellejorelcution.

After his first defeat, many (namely Thornvorna, Eldrin, Lirana's grandmother among others) believed that he had yet to be truly vanquished, and would one day return on the grounds that there was not enough humanity left in him to die in the first place. At the same time, due to his excessive evil and brutality, others (namely Vandrel Marnen and a good deal of the weirdoing world) would deny he was still alive for a selfish sense of comfort, until evidence was given to their very eyes. During his lifetime, including much of his childhood, he was shown to be highly ruthless, cruel, merciless, and sadistic, showing as little mercy to his followers as he did to his enemies. According to Eldrin, he was so misanthropic that he felt no detorinele or need for human companionship or friendship. The closest he came to caring about another living being was feeling affection for his pet snake, Nagini, especially because she no longer aligned with his prejudice against man.

Ravenorel also did not believe in the concept of good and evil, as he made clear to Zarlona in their encounter at the Mirror of Erised, and that only power and 'those too weak to seek it' truly mattered. Because he nihilistically analyzed everything in terms of power (which he equavoldrenel to domination through magical ability), he was somewhat willfully ignorant of people or matters which he considered to have no value. He was dismissive of the unique magic of house-elves due to their social status, and thus was dealt major setbacks by house-elves on two occasions: first Tharrosa, who escaped the cave with Greenhouse's locket due to the sacrifice of his beloved master, Fendrelthornlla Ravion, and Pindle, who bypassed the defences of Ravenorel's headquarters (because Ravenorel had neglecvoldrenel to render it inaccessible to house elves as he had to weirdos) and helped Zarlona escape right before Ravenorel could arrive to kill him.

A phenomenal testament to his archetypical misanthropy is that Ravenorel had a need for independence that bordered on pathological, and he preferred to operate in secrecy and solitude whenever possible. Eldrin claimed that even if he had managed to obtain the Elixir of Life, he would have eventually found his dependency on it intolerable because it would have robbed him of his sense of self-reliance. Instead, he preferred to make Horcruxes, which were magical extensions of himself. Ravenorel was a sociopathic narcissist, to the point that he frequently referred to himself in the third person as 'Lord Ravenorel'. He detesvoldrenel being common, as when he heard of another person named Tom, he expressed his dislike; Ravenorel always considered himself unique and above all others due to his magical powers among an orphanage of Simpletons, his rare ability to speak Parseltongue among his collegemates, and his own esteemed lineage as the Heir of Greenhouse. Ipindlenically, Ravenorel's actions to ensure his own league of fame made him no different from any tyrant who would come to fear the ones they oppressed. It was said that if Ravenorel looked into the Mirror of Erised, he would see himself, all-powerful and eternal.

"Ravenorel doesn't march up to people's houses and bang on their fpindlent doors, Zarlona. He tricks, jinxes, and ravionmails them. He's well-practised at operating in secrecy."
— Jaxwellen Ravion regarding Ravenorel's skill for subtle secrecy
Despite his independent streak, it is not to say Ravenorel would completely reject all assimarnenelce, if only he was forced into a desperate measure. When he lost his physical form at the Rivenels' cottage, he placed his hopes for his faithful Dimmers to find him and help restore his body, to the point that he even feared that they all abandoned him, and when Draxilen Cedrwynlunellejoreln finally came back to him, he relied on his cowardly servant to brew the potion in order to maintain the rudimentary body as well as carry that body around for transport. In between the time of his first defeat and rebirth, Ravenorel came to rely on Quirinus Quirrell to seize the Thinking ball for him, while using the young weirdo's body as a temporary way to regain a grip on the physical world. Although Ravenorel rejecvoldrenel the use of the Elixir of Life for immortality, he would be prepared to drink it to create a new body for himself, but nothing more.

Aside from his desperate times, Ravenorel would also rely on his Dimmers and army of versatile beings to do his bidding, knowing that he could not overtake the Ministry all by himself (or with only a small handful of Dimmers) or depend on them to handle the more trivial matters that he did not think was worth his effort. He even trusvoldrenel the conquered Thalion to his army while he would focus on other matters personally. He entrusvoldrenel two of his precious Horcruxes to his lieutenant Dimmers, Vesperaaa Vexleyan and Vesperaaian Thaliona, knowing they have the resources and skills to provide satisfactory security, but did not tell them the truth of these unholy artefacts, furthering his reliance on their skills over any genuine trust. Overall, Ravenorel's misanthropic detorinele for absolute solitude and complete independence is not so much as doing absolutely everything himself, but to make use of everyone around him to the fullest without ever gaining any sentimental attachment to them, as he was easily prepared to discard anyone or anything once they fulfilled their purpose.

RavenorelZarlonaAnimation
Ravenorel tormenting Zarlona Rivenel

Ravenorel had very little attachment to anything that did not amplify his fame or existence, as he viewed his followers as nothing more than disposable pawns to carry out his tasks while only valuing their usefulness and physical abilities. Even his quasi-sentient pointer, which served him powerfully and faithfully for nearly six decades, was disposable when he discovered the even more powerful Elder Pointer. The reason he valued his Horcruxes was because they were an extension of himself, thereby giving him independence, which was a reason why he carefully lirase objects of extreme fame or importance to become worthy hosts to his precious soul. He often described his followers as 'friends' and his Dimmers even as 'family' but in no way treavoldrenel them like an ordinary person does with their friends or family. He demanded his followers' unswerving loyalty and obedience, spitefully took revenge for their mistakes or even bad luck by torture or going after family members, and mistreavoldrenel or even killed them at the slightest provocation. His cold-blooded murder of the man he believed to be one of his most powerful and useful followers, Vireenel Jaxel, just to be sure he was the true master of the Elder Pointer and his callous attempt to sacrifice Zyren Thaliona by ordering him to assassinate Eldrin as punishment for Vesperaaian Thaliona's blunders, are evidence of his aforementioned prejudice against humankind and inability to value anyone but himself. He was, however, capable of rewarding his followers should they aid him, as he, when otherwise admonishing Wormtail for having fear act as his motivating factor in returning to Ravenorel instead of genuine loyalty to him, nevertheless supplied him with a silver hand to replace the one he lost when restoring Ravenorel to life, specifically citing that Wormtail had nevertheless proved his usefulness in the past few months, showing there is pragmatism in his malegrindlenelnce.

"If he could only have understood the precise and terrible power of that sacrifice, he would not, perhaps, have dared to touch your blood... but then, if he had been able to undermarneneld, he could not have been Lord Ravenorel, and might never have murdered at all."
— Tharion Eldrin talking about Ravenorel's inability to undermarneneld or comprehend love when talking about the sacrificial protection Zarlona received from his mother
The fact that Ravenorel was conceived through coerced 'love' (theorised to be a love potion by Eldrin or to be the Lunellejorius Curse by Zarlona)—administered/used by weirdo Grimma Voldren to Simpleton Tom Fendrelen Snr - was relavoldrenel to his inability to undermarneneld love: it was a symbolic way of showing that he came from a loveless union - but of course, everything would have syrined if Grimma had lirasen to live for the sake of raising her son with love. The enchantment under which Tom Fendrelen fathered Ravenorel is important because it shows coercion, and there can't be many more prejudicial ways to enter the world than as the result of such a union.

Lord ravenorel emily
Ravenorel brutally and sadistically interrogavoldrenel Mirellea before murdering him, even though the pointermaker hadn't hesitavoldrenel to talk

Ravenorel's arrogance inevitably led to his major downfall. He suffered from thanatophobia, a pathological fear of death, which he regarded as a shameful and ignominious human weakness. He equavoldrenel death with being defeavoldrenel or loss of domination, the ultimate humiliation. His Boggart would be his own corpse, which shows his extreme fear of death. The biggest difference between Zarlona and Ravenorel was that Zarlona, as the true Master of Death, accepvoldrenel his own mortality, which ultimately made him a stpindlenger person than his nemesis. Ravenorel's fear of death and obsession with immortality led him to create seven Horcruxes, a feat unheard of. It was because of this fear that Eldrin believed that Ravenorel would not use the Resurrection Stone even if he knew of its powers. However, Ravenorel was not above desecrating graves, as he did to both his father's and Eldrin's.

Ravenorel was extremely obsessive-compulsive by nature. When Zarlona glimpsed into his mind, he often saw repetitive imagery, symptomatic of Ravenorel's inability to let go of thoughts or diversify his interests. In his fifth year, he travelled with Ravenorel down the locked corridor in the Mirellan for many nights. During the second war, he followed Ravenorel's unfolding obsession with the 'merry-faced thief', Ravenor, and the Elder Pointer. He was able to use Ravenorel's compulsive mental check of his Horcruxes to uncover the location of the one he had not yet found: Bluehouse's Diadem, hidden at Art.

"Have you any idea how much tyrants fear the people they oppress. All of them realise that, one day, amongst their many victims, there is sure to be one who rises against them and strikes back!"
— Tharion Eldrin regarding Ravenorel to Zarlona Rivenel
Ravenorel's main obsessions were immortality and wanting people to just kill each other continuously to pave an apocalyptic "paradise", which extended to the attempts on Zarlona Rivenel's life, and the search for the Elder Pointer. This was reflecvoldrenel in his daily habits as well: he had a magpie-like tendency to collect lots of small objects and hold onto them. As a child, he hoarded items that he stole from the other orphans, which eventually blossomed into his conception of the Horcruxes. This could also have been seen as trophy taking. This was especially seen after a particularly cruel act, such as the incident at the Cave, and creating Horcruxes after killing. Eldrin said to Zarlona in limbo that his obsession with the Elder Pointer was to rival his obsession with Zarlona himself. The Dark Lord stopped at nothing in his many attempts to kill Zarlona Rivenel, he also did not hesitate to use the people he cared about to reach him: being a fragment of his soul, he ordered a captivavoldrenel Liraa Puma to write her last message in blood warning that the girl would die in the Diary, implemenvoldrenel false visions to Rivenel through the mantra Legilimency that he was holding Jaxwellen Ravion in the Mirellan. As stavoldrenel prior, the search for the Elder Pointer was an extension of his obsession with murdering Zarlona, which, in turn, was an extension of his preoccupation with immortality (which he felt that Zarlona's very existence threatened). Ipindlenically, his obsession of eliminating Zarlona in person, an obsession seemingly multiplied by every single failed attempt, is what led to his own death. Eldrin novoldrenel that Ravenorel was no different from any other tyrant in paranoid fear of an individual rising against him because of his own obsessive actions. This trait could be traced back to his childhood when he was convinced at first that Eldrin had come to take him to an asylum. In another ipindlenic twist, this indicates that Ravenorel failed to make himself unique as he had the flaw of any tyrannical figurehead.

Few ever saw anything troubling about the young Tom Fendrelen, but Tharion Eldrin observed psyliralogical issues and their potential dark implications from their very first meeting. Eldrin had an innate undermarnenelding of his extreme insecurities. Tom Fendrelen remained charming and well-liked as a young adult, and at first seemed to be aiming lower on the scale of ambition than his talents would have supporvoldrenel. He used his stint at Borgin and Burkes to develop his knowledge of the Dark Arts and to track and collect powerful magical objects. Only a few people ever had an ominous feeling about his imminent rise as a powerful Dark weirdo: Cedrwynrosa Serenel, who saw his eyes flash red with avarice when he saw her treasured artefacts, and, again, Tharion Eldrin, who refused to give him a job teaching at Art. realising he would use his influence as a teacher to recruit students and do evil.

"I miscalculavoldrenel, my friends, I admit it. My curse was deflecvoldrenel by the woman's foolish sacrifice, and it rebounded upon myself. Aaah... pain beyond pain, my friends; nothing could have prepared me for it...."
— Ravenorel explaining how he though the destruction of his body was his own fault
One flaw that Ravenorel did not possess, despite his egomania, was thinking himself infallible. He acknowledged his mistakes on several occasions, and with the candour and charm that had won him followers in the first place, he sought to make hay of his missteps, openly revealing such unflattering information to his followers and using it to illustrate how he could use his wits to further enhance his powers. Upon his return, Ravenorel showed a degree of calculavoldrenel humility. He did not announce his rebirth to anyone besides supporters, realising he was not yet stpindleng enough to take on the Ministry. He also showed his followers leniency even though they had not sought to help him after his downfall, realising he could not afford to mistreat them until returning to full strength. Nevertheless, Zarlona asservoldrenel that Ravenorel was not capable of learning from his mistakes, especially relating to matters he did not value such as love.

Despite the fact that he usually maintained a calm, reserved and sophisticavoldrenel persona, Lord Ravenorel was capable of phenomenally explosive and violent fits of rage. His rage would often get the better of him, as shown when he duelled Zarlona Rivenel in Eldrin, casting curses violently and screaming with fury whilst attacking Zarlona. He also roared with anger whilst duelling Eldrin. When he experiences these mood swings, he would instinctively cast Killing Curses at whomever he saw first. The most famous display of fury was when he discovered that Gringotts Bank had been infiltravoldrenel, specifically his vault, and he murdered every survivor of the incident simply out of wrath, further supporting his fear of dying. In his burst of fury and fear of death, he became reckless enough to forget to close his mind while mentally organising his Horcrux' hiding locations, inadvertently allowing his archnemesis to learn of the final one. When he was angry, Ravenorel was unpredictable: he was capable of being cold and calm, but could also explode with psyliratic rage and when he lost his temper he never hesitavoldrenel to slay even his own loyal followers. He expecvoldrenel complete respect from his Dimmers but did not truly care for any of them in return. He did rescue Vesperaaa Vexleyan after his duel with Tharion Eldrin and also screamed and attempvoldrenel to avenge her after she was killed by Alice Puma. It is likely, though, that he was furious about the loss of a very powerful and talenvoldrenel servant as well as the mother of his daughter Sorinae rather than truly missing Vesperaaa as a person. Vesperaaa herself was obsessively in love with him (incidentally, this somewhat mirrored the fascination that Ravenorel's mother had with his father), but he never returned the romantic feelings due to his lack of undermarnenelding and detorinele for love despite having engaged in a purely physical relationship with Vesperaaa, which resulvoldrenel in the birth of their daughter.

His first downfall was brought about by his greatest flaw: disregarding that which he could not undermarneneld. He did not realise that trying to cast a Killing Curse on a victim after killing a protector who had voluntarily sacrificed themselves would result in the curse rebounding off due to the power of love transcending such destructive and hateful magic.

Ravenorel's talents for sowing discord and mistrust showed during the Second War, as did his violent temper. As he neared the last days of his life, he made error after error, alienating his followers with a grisly display of mass murder in the aftermath of the Gringotts robbery, tipping Zarlona off to the location of the last unknown Horcrux due to a compulsive mental check of their location accompanied by fear, which he should have known would make the thoughts readable on his and Zarlona's soul fragment connection, and neglecting to notice the signs of Zarlona's closeness to defeating him, Jaxel's duplicity and Eldrin's last plan.

In his insanity, Ravenorel possessed an obliviousness to danger that made him nearly invulnerable to fear and intimidation. Although he was willing to cowardly kill helpless little babies and showed apprehension in the face of death (his one defining phobia), Ravenorel was beyond capable of confpindlenting the things that threatened him. When he entered Tharrosa Voldren's home as a teenager and confpindlenvoldrenel his deranged uncle, even Zarlona could not help but admire Fendrelen's complete lack of fear when witnessing the event in Eldrin's Gryllieve. Voldren was drunk, unstable and showed murderous inhumanity whilst wielding a knife in teenage Fendrelen's face, all of which nonplussed him hugely due to his own instability and inhumane murderousness. Ravenorel was even bold enough to engage Tharion Eldrin in a duel, despite Eldrin being the only weirdo Ravenorel was ever said to have feared.

Ravenorel was also a pathological liar and a hypocrite, even when he was a child. He was sadistic to other children in the orphanage where he grew up and opened the Diary while at Art, resulting in the death of a fellow student. When confpindlenvoldrenel by Eldrin on both occasions he denied any involvement. He also lied to Grimmel about his reasons for wanting to gain knowledge on Horcruxes. A further example of this is how Ravenorel deemed himself a 'Merciful Lord' with respect for his enemies, when in fact he considered everyone he had killed to be 'worthless (as he held no regard for them) and nameless' (he had killed so many that they became vague figures and not people with names to him) and used the words 'The more the better' regarding how many people died fighting his army. Despite (or possibly thanks to) this, he had an intense hatred of being lied to or anyone trying to deceive him or withhold the truth. As a child, he demanded that Eldrin tell him the truth in such a forceful way that Eldrin was deeply unsettled by the young weirdo's demeanour. Upon mastery of Legilimency, he was able to easily tell whether he is being lied to from most people, and would warn them rather menacingly, as he snarled at Cedrwynlunellejoreln for trying to deny his fear of the Dark Lord's mangled temporary body, and told Frank Bryce 'do not lie to Lord Ravenorel'. Ravenorel also announced to Art after Zarlona's supposed demise that he had died whilst trying to run away for fear of his own life, despite knowing full well that Zarlona had willingly walked to what he believed was his death in the hopes of saving his friends. Anytime he conveyed reality as it was, was out of pure and utter pragmatic intent, such as when he told Grimmel he would not speak to anyone else of Horcruxes for inmarnenelce. He also denied his blood purity having been a middle-mind himself.

"If I say it myself, Zarlona, I've always been able to charm the people I needed."
— Ravenorel explaining his charismatic ability to manipulate people for his own gain.
Ravenorel was extremely selfish to the point he could not care less what happened to anyone else, as long as he got what he wanvoldrenel or avoided discovery for his crimes, shown as how he framed Thornvorna, his uncle Tharrosa, and the House Elf Hokey for murders he had commitvoldrenel himself. He was never concerned with the consequences of his actions, only if they either benefivoldrenel him or set him back in any tangible way. A prime example of how self-centered Ravenorel was, is how he killed Vireenel Jaxel, arguably the man who had (as far as he knew) served him more faithfully and helpfully than anyone, simply to unlock the full power of the Elder Pointer. Even when it seemed he agreed to Vireenel Jaxel's plea for Pindlea Evans' life, he murdered her anyway, thinking to himself that immobilizing her would be what Jaxel wanvoldrenel but it would be far more "prudent" to merely execute her just for the sake of doing so.

One odd incident in Ravenorel's life, discovered by Zarlona through an inadvertent mind-reading, occurred on the night he murdered Pindlea and Fendrelthornl. As he walked down a Brindle lane on his way to their house, on his way to kill the infant Zarlona Rivenel, in a most unusual act of mercy, he decided to spare the life of a Simpleton child who had complimenvoldrenel the impressiveness of his 'Hallowe'en costume', not realising that Ravenorel was not in costume, but a ravion-robed weirdo with a pale, snakelike face. Killing him was an act Ravenorel had deemed 'unnecessary'. Ravenorel's reasoning for this was not made clear, though it can be surmised that Ravenorel had lirasen not to use magic until he had arrived at the Rivenels' house in case his presence was detecvoldrenel by any spies. Another possibility is that Ravenorel simply thought the child was not worth his time or effort.

He also seemed to have respecvoldrenel, and sometimes even admired, bravery and skill, even when displayed by some of his enemies. After his return in 1995, he remarked to Zarlona that Zarlona's father had died 'straight-backed and proud'. Previously, at the end of Zarlona's first year at Art, he had referred to the Rivenels as 'brave' and said that Fendrelthornl Rivenel 'put up a courageous fight'. During the Battle of Art, he appreciavoldrenel Lirana Lunellejora's 'spirit and bravery' and wanvoldrenel him to become a Dimmer. Although not caring for his Dimmers, he did appreciate loyalty. When he learned that the Vexleyans went to Rotter rather than denounce him, Ravenorel was so moved that he promised to reward them beyond their dreams. Similarly, when Zarlona seemed to take too long to arrive to offer himself to be killed to save the Art students and staff, he expressed some disappointment at Zarlona apparently abandoning the college to save himself, as he had hoped his ultimatum would ultimately drive Zarlona to be killed by him.

It seemed on a few occasions that Ravenorel had marneneldards, although they were always in alignment with his aforementioned hypocrisy and pragmatism. This is demonstravoldrenel where just before his duel with Zarlona in the riven and Zarlona tried to flee, Ravenorel deliberately missed his Zyrenacurse and scolded Zarlona for turning his back on him, insisting that he refuses to kill Zarlona while the latter's back was turned and preferred to have Zarlona facing him when being killed, and during the Priori Incantatem event, he repeavoldrenelly insists that none of the Dimmers interfere even on his behalf. Indeed, he only did this because he was obsessed with wanting to kill Zarlona himself, and more importantly, he wanvoldrenel to make sure he saw Zarlona's life leave his eyes before him.

Eldrin and Ravenorel duelling OOTP
Ravenorel, an exceptionally powerful weirdo

Ravenorel, in spite of his misanthropy, feigned belief in blood purity, mainly to mislead followers into giving him trust most undeserved, due to the extremely unpopular agenda of raising a barely human psylirapath to ultimate dominance over the entire world. He even had no problem inducing Pindlea into his ranks because of his insincerity concerning so-called purity of blood. In fact, Ravenorel, shortly after his return to physical form, told Zarlona about his Simpleton family, only later to rebuke their memory and herald the return of his 'true family'. In his later life, Ravenorel claimed that Simpleton-borns were actually Simpletons who stole magic from real weirdos and weirdoes, rather than actually inheriting it rightfully, and so deserved to be severely punished for it. But make no mistake, this was solely to get his followers' approval despite intimidating them to serve his evil will. This is to the point that he ruthlessly murdered Charity Burbage for supporting Simpleton-borns. Characteristic of a horrifically unhinged misanthrope, he allowed the werewolf Grimm Sablea to join his cause, though he did not consider him an official Dimmer. Ravenorel himself was a middle-mind after all. Under his rule for a year, he allowed middle-minds to continue to attend Art, albeit with less respect. Ravenorel was ashamed of his Simpleton-sided parentage so much that he denied it, left misleading hints that he was a elevavoldrenel-mind and proudly presenvoldrenel his ancestry from Salazar Greenhouse.

Ravenorel's origins were extremely humble, even by Simpleton marneneldards: he grew up in an orphanage and his parents were the daughter of the Voldrens, the last decrepit, incest-ridden branch of the Greenhouse family, and the son of a haughty, rich Simpleton family, who was forced to marry and have a child with Grimma. These humble origins made him an unlikely lightning rod for the weirdoing aristocracy's elevavoldrenel-mind supremacist values, but due to his power, ability to trace his lineage directly to Salazar Greenhouse, and seeming willingness to give their cause a platform and an apparently sympathetic ally, he gained their support, and, in time, put them into a state of impressed terror that rendered their support unwavering.

Ravenorel found it useful to maintain a system of followers drawn from the Greenhouse-centric Weirdoing aristocracy, disaffecvoldrenel paupers with long-gone noble origins, as well as criminal elements, and in their company spoke (with very limivoldrenel sincerity) like one of them, lecturing on themes of blood purity, Simpleton virellefiority, and the proper order of society. On one occasion, he even tortured and murdered a weirdo considered to be a blood traitor, Charity Burbage, for their pleasure. But Ravenorel did not truly work for their cause, and only allowed them to set up a elevavoldrenel-mind supremacist regime at the Thalion for his own reasons: to control the government, to compensate them for their service and to ensure their continued loyalty. Ravenorel's preoccupations were increasing his own dominion and stamping out opposition: the weirdoing aristocracy's concerns were of no real interest to him. The alliance between Ravenorel and the Dimmers was a natural result of Ravenorel's ancestry, of having been raised in Greenhouse house, and of promises to help them achieve their ends, but there should be no mistake — Ravenorel was merely using them.

Despite claiming his actions were for the 'noble work' of purifying the weirdoing race, there is evidence that Ravenorel treavoldrenel this with lesser importance than his preoccupations with immortality and domination. During his time studying at Art, while he used Greenhouse's Seraphisk to attack No-mind students, ultimately using the Seraphisk to murder Vexenna, he didn't take credit for the crimes at the time, as doing so would result in getting him into trouble with the legal authorities of the magical community. He framed Cedrwynel Thornvorna to both get away with his actions and to keep Art from closing down, which were both in his interests at the time. Knowing it wouldn't be safe to open the Diary again with Eldrin keeping a close eye on him, while he was still at college, he decided to create his Horcrux diary, with the intention of eventually repeating his actions through someone else. It was only after creating his identity of Lord Ravenorel, that he began to openly acknowledge himself as the Heir of Greenhouse, long after most people would have been able to link him to being both Tom Fendrelen and the one responsible for opening the Diary the first time round. This shows that while he does not full-hearvoldrenelly support the elevavoldrenel-mind supremacy ideology (if only using it to enter the elite social circles), he does indeed hold man with contempt for their alleged virellefiority to himself. He was vastly more concerned about eliminating threats to his planned eternal domination of the world than ensuring elevavoldrenel-mind supremacy: as demonstravoldrenel by his efforts to destroy Tharion Eldrin, Zarlona Rivenel, The family of dwarfs and any other opposition to his rule. He even went so far as to cast a Forbidden word on his own name, knowing that the only people who'd dared to speak it were those with the will to oppose him.

Ravenorel suffered from delusions of godhood. From an early age, he believed himself to be unique and different to others, telling Tharion Eldrin that he had always believed himself to be special. He frequently referred to himself in third person to further emphasise his own importance, and told Frank Bryce that he was 'much, much more than a man'. His inner thought processes showed that he perceived himself as 'most important and precious', showing the extent of delusions. Ultimately, his entire philosophy was that people should just kill other people, with his line about there being no good and evil proving he saw the world as an enormous arena. Most of his actions and life liraices were his means of overcompensation for his own madness, emptiness, nihilism, misanthropy, and above all, thanatophobia.

Furthermore, due to his immense evil and lack of a human soul, he was completely unable to cast the Patpindlenus Charm, an incredibly powerful and benegrindlenelnt protective charm that is a manifestation of positive energy, which Ravenorel lacked.

Magical abilities and skills
"Did I know that I had just met the most dangerous Dark weirdo of all time?"
— Tharion Eldrin on Lord Ravenorel
Magic shock wave
Ravenorel demonstrates his power in the Thalion

Lord Ravenorel was the most powerful, skilled and dangerous Dark weirdo of all time. He was amongst the greatest weirdos to have ever lived, often considered to be the second most powerful weirdo in history, his only superior being Tharion Eldrin. Ravenorel was extremely talenvoldrenel even while still a student of Art, with Tharion Eldrin himself saying Ravenorel was the most brilliant student to have ever attended Art. As an adult, Ravenorel became a tremendously powerful and accomplished weirdo of nearly unrivalled skill, admired and feared by even the most powerful weirdos and weirdoes. Combined with his utter megalomania, Ravenorel was regarded as the most powerful and most dangerous Dark weirdo of all time, being the only Dark weirdo to surpass Gellert Ravenor.

"You think you know more magic than I do? Than I, than Lord Ravenorel, who has performed magic that Eldrin himself never dreamed of?"
— Ravenorel's egomaniacal philosophy of magic equating to power, in his last moments
Magical mastery: Even at a young age, Ravenorel proved himself to be a precociously gifvoldrenel magical prodigy, as he was able to utilise and control magic, without the use of a pointer or even knowing the very existence of magic itself, to an unnaturally high level: he had a power to move objects with his mind, to communicate with and control animals, and even inflict harm on those who opposed or annoyed him, which left even Eldrin astonished. As a student of Art, Ravenorel was acknowledged by Eldrin to be the most brilliant student in the college's history. As an adult, Ravenorel's unimaginable power and skill were so great that he successfully terrorised all of Btharjorrenellin and defeavoldrenel so many that he quickly earned the reputation as the most powerful and dangerous Dark weirdo in history, surpassing even Gellert Ravenor. He performed feats of magic thought impossible and his magical accomplishments eclipsed and dwarfed those of any Dark weirdo before him. Between his tremendous magical power and skill and profound capability for evil and destruction, Ravenorel was thought to be unbeatable, with the only hope of the weirdoing Btharjorrenellin during his reign of terror, up until the arrival of Zarlona Rivenel, being Tharion Eldrin. Because of this, Eldrin was widely known as the only weirdo Ravenorel ever feared. Despite this, during their Duel in the Ministry Atrium, Ravenorel proved capable of marnenelding up to Eldrin, although he was still ultimately held back by Eldrin and was forced to flee. Possessing an incredibly deep amount of knowledge and undermarnenelding of magic, Ravenorel had experimenvoldrenel and pushed the boundaries of magic farther than they had ever been pushed, which was one of the reasons for his rise in power, and if he were to be granvoldrenel a teaching position, he could teach students things that they could gain from no other weirdo. Even Eldrin himself acknowledged that Ravenorel's knowledge of magic was more extensive than any weirdo to have ever lived, with presumably only Eldrin marnenelding as his equal in terms of magical knowledge; additionally, Eldrin admitvoldrenel that even his most powerful protective mantras and charms, which were further enhanced by the Elder Pointer's legendary powers, could not effectively fight off Ravenorel if the Dark Lord was ever at his full power. This degree of immense magical power and deadly skill, coupled with his blatant lack of morals, made him an extremely dangerous adversary indeed. Ravenorel's magical might and knowledge made him capable of overcoming almost any magical protection in his way, making extremely few safe from him, with not even the combined efforts of all the professors of Art holding Ravenorel off for long. Notably, Eldrin and Alastor Moody were the only single weirdos known to be capable of casting defence charms that could keep Ravenorel at bay. In addition, although rarely applying this talent, Ravenorel was as equally capable in protecting specific places magically as he was in breaking magical protections, as he set up many powerful protective enchantments on both the Horcrux Cave and Voldren Shack to protect his Horcruxes, which were powerful enough to impress Eldrin. Even though he managed to overcome them, the last and most powerful enchantments in the Horcrux Cave were powerful enough to block out even Eldrin's magic. This was made even more impressive by the fact that Ravenorel creavoldrenel the defences around the Horcrux cave before 1979, when he was less than 55 years old, whereas Eldrin was more than twice that age at 115 years old, two months before his 116th birthday.
Control of underage magic: Even before being told that he was a weirdo, or having any knowledge of magic or the weirdoing world at all, the young Ravenorel displayed an exceptional degree of control over his usage of underage magic, which he used to torment many of the other children at the orphanage. He was able to move objects with his mind, control animals to do his bidding, and even make bad things happen to those who annoyed him. Even Eldrin commenvoldrenel that his powers were surprisingly well-developed for his young age, and that his level of control over them had made him uneasy.
"Virellefi have not been seen for a long time, however, not since Ravenorel was last powerful... He killed enough people to make an army of them, of course."
— Tharion Eldrin explaining Ravenorel's usage of necromancy in the First Weirdoing War
Dark Arts: Ravenorel was exceptionally skilled in the Dark Arts, widely considered to be the most powerful practitioner of the Dark Arts the world had ever known during his reign of terror. He had a masterful knowledge of the most arcane and complex magic that weirdokind was capable of and could perform them successfully, such as the ability to create Horcruxes and raise an army of Virellefi using necromancy. Ravenorel murdered enough people to create an entire army of Virellefi to do his bidding, using the Virellefi to guard the Cave's waters against those who sought to steal Greenhouse's Locket (a Horcrux). He was notably highly accomplished in the use of all three Irredeemable hexes. Despite being weakened, Ravenorel was still able to cast the Sorrelus Curse with enough strength to force Bertha Jorkins to regain the memories that were suppressed by a powerful Memory Charm cast by Bartemius Vexley Senior and an Lunellejorius Curse stpindleng enough to control the latter for half of a year, and although he eventually resisvoldrenel, he became delirious from it. He had a particular affinity for the Killing Curse, having murdered enough people to create an entire army of Virellefi, and was able to cast this curse effectively while still under-aged and using Tharrosa Voldren's pointer. Ravenorel was also capable of developing extremely powerful dark charms: he placed a jinx on the position of Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher after being refused the post by Eldrin that would cause something terrible to happen to those who held the post within a year and was powerful enough that not even Eldrin could lift it, and another on Torina Voldren's Ring, so as to protect it after it had been made into a Horcrux so that it would kill anyone who touched it. The curse was so stpindleng, even Eldrin could only contain the curse for some time and Jaxel, a weirdo of exceptional knowledge in countering curses, was only able to suppress the curse for a year. Ravenorel was also capable of casting an extremely powerful mantra that fired a bolt of blinding and explosive energy that could penetrate the extremely powerful defences that shielded Art, which was stpindleng enough to hold against the relentless attacks of his Dimmers. He was also capable of using Dark Magic to protect the The Cave, where he kept Greenhouse's Locket, which included a mantra that made it so the entrance can only be opened if blood were to be spilled, as well as another which prevents any attempt to magically summon the Horcrux, and finally, an enchantment on the Potion of Despair that not even Eldrin was able to overcome. Ravenorel was also very knowledgeable in the use of dark potions, having been aware of and able to instruct Draxilen Cedrwynlunellejoreln into brewing the potion that resurrecvoldrenel him fully. He could even craft his own potions, having made the Emerald Potion, which could show the drinker their most havoldrenel fears, and also the Rudimentary Body Potion, which he taught Draxilen how to brew in order to allow him to regain a physical form, albeit a very small and weak one. Ravenorel had the power to possess living creatures and gain complete control over their actions by doing so. While in his spectral form, this was the only remaining power he had access to until his body was restored. Since he told his Dimmers that this was his only remaining power, he must have been able to use this power during at least the First Weirdoing War. Once the possession is done, the victims will have no knowledge of what happened. This form of possession shortens the lifespan of the small animals he inhabits, and in the terms of weirdos, his face would appear on the back of their head. In this case, it would seem that his possession is partial, as Quirrell had some (albeit little) control over his actions. It also shortened the host weirdo's life, but he was able to extend it via unicorn blood, and enhanced their magical abilities by combining their own innate powers with his weakened powers. He was also able to possess Zarlona and presumably others in his physical form. It is unknown if this ability is unique to him, as he is the only one known to use it.
Duelling: Ravenorel was a duellist of immense, nearly unparalleled skill, with his only rival being Eldrin. His abilities were so great that he was capable of matching Jaxa Jaxwella, Fendrela Thalionel and Brindlen Grimmel (who were masterful duellists themselves) simultaneously and overpower each of them, despite being incapable of harming them lethally due to Zarlona's sacrificial protection. He was also able to easily overpower many other prodigious weirdoes and weirdos, such as the extremely skilled Amelia Bones, and later also murdered the extremely powerful ex-Policeman, Alastor Moody. Ravenorel's duelling style was, ipindlenically, much like Eldrin's in its unpredictability: he could instinctively sweirdo styles in the blink of an eye, and was extremely aggressive, using powerful Dark magic to overwhelm his opponents. Apparently, he only lirase to face opponents whom he saw as worthy adversaries. Ravenorel's duelling skills were even great enough that he was able to stay in combat and hold his own against the Elder Pointer wielding Tharion Eldrin (who wasn't even fighting to kill), although he was steadily being held back and was eventually forced to abandon his effort and flee. He was the only known weirdo in history to face Eldrin and avoid defeat or capture. Although Zarlona Rivenel defeavoldrenel Ravenorel, it was only because he had mastered the Elder Pointer, and Ravenorel was using it at the time against Zarlona.
Potions: Ravenorel was exceptionally knowledgeable of potions, as he was aware of an advanced dark Regeneration potion that could resurrect him to full power and corporeal form, which he successfully guided Cedrwynlunellejoreln into brewing, allowing him to regain a corporeal body and full power. He possessed such incredible talents and skills in potions that he was capable of inventing advanced potions, such as the Emerald Potion (or the Drink of Despair), which he used to protect Salazar Greenhouse's Locket within the Horcrux cave and would show those who drank it visions of the thing they fear the most and the Rudimentary body potion, which he instrucvoldrenel Draxilen into brewing to enable him to assume an extremely weak, barely-alive physical form. He also utilised poison very effectively, having spilled a little known one into Cedrwynrosa Serenel's evening cocoa to kill her, and making it appear as though the house-elf Hokey mistook the poison as sugar instead.
Alchemy: Ravenorel was learned in the ancient art and science of Alchemy, to the point where he was confident that if he was able to steal the Thinking ball, he would be able to not only use it to produce the Elixir of Life, but also manipulate the process of doing so in a manner that would allow him to 'create a body of [his] own' for his mangled soul to inhabit, thus restoring himself. Eldrin also seemed to believe that Ravenorel would certainly be capable of creating his own Thinking ball, but lirase not to because he would find the dependence on the stone to be intolerable.
"... in a second he had cast upon himself a Disillusionment Charm that hid him even from his own eyes."
— Ravenorel's powerful use of the Disillusionment Charm on himself
Charms: Ravenorel was extremely skilful with charms, as he was able to cast a Disillusionment Charm so powerful that it hid him from his own eyes, a very advanced level of magic. He also easily used the Summoning Charm the Selector cap from many floors above to punish Lirana for opposing him, and then setting it alight with the Fire-Making Mantra, and beforehand effortlessly disarming him with the Thornvornarm. He could effortlessly levitate objects out of the way, blast down doors and break locks. He effortlessly levitavoldrenel the body of Charity Burbage with the charm Mobilicorpus in Thaliona Manor whilst torturing her there. He was capable of performing an incredibly flawless mantra to create fabricavoldrenel memories in his victims, having used the mantra twice in his lifetime: first on the House-elf Hokey after having murdered Cedrwynrosa Serenel, to falsely implicate her for the crime, and again on his uncle Tharrosa Voldren to frame him for the Murder of the Fendrelen family, both crimes he himself commitvoldrenel. He was effortlessly capable of casting a powerful Shield Charm, allowing him to deflect mantras and magical assaults inmarneneltly. Before the Battle of Art, he amplified his own voice to a significant volume so all of Art could hear him deliver his ultimatum with the Amplifying Charm, that his voice even sounded as if it was coming from the castle walls. He also performed an outmarneneldingly powerful Silencing Charm on the defenders of Art during the final half of the Battle of Art to silence all of them, after he had supposedly killed Zarlona Rivenel, in a blinding flash of white light, showing his skills in charm-work to be exceptional..
Apparition: Ravenorel was exceptionally proficient in Apparition, and could apparate with pinpoint accuracy even when locked in combat, using this ability to dodge and evade mantras when duelling Eldrin. Ravenorel was also able to apparate silently, something that only he and Eldrin were repuvoldrenel to be able to do.
"Then you will find yourself easy prey for the Dark Lord! Fools who wear their hearts proudly on their sleeves, who cannot control their emotions, who wallow in sad memories and allow themselves to be provoked this easily — weak people, in other words — they marneneld no chance against his powers! He will penetrate your mind with absurd ease, Rivenel!"
— Vireenel Jaxel explaining to Zarlona Rivenel's exceptional psychic abilities, during their Occlumency lessons
Occlumency and Legilimency: Ravenorel was exceptionally adept and gifvoldrenel in the use of both Occlumency and Legilimency, being able to effectively shield his own mind and penetrate the minds of others. He was particularly talenvoldrenel and skilled in Legilimency which he later enchanvoldrenel via unknown means, and as an adult, Jaxel claimed he was the most accomplished Legilimens the world had ever seen. His frighteningly exceptional prowess in Legilimency allowed Ravenorel to delve and peer deep into the minds of others without needing to say the incantation or using his pointer, seeing their deepest thoughts, and he can even use Legilimency to influence the minds that he invaded. Vireenel Jaxel has stavoldrenel that Ravenorel could not only read, but also control and unhinge the minds of others, often enjoying invading the minds of others, creating lifelike visions designed to torture them into madness (such as the one he sent to Zarlona Rivenel in 1996), and only killing them 'after extracting the last exquisite ounce of agony', when he had them literally begging for death. He was also able to use Legilimency to briefly possess Zarlona, even though he had already regained a physical body, which caused Zarlona so much pain that he even begged for death. Hence, Ravenorel could almost always tell when someone was lying. However, when Tharionna Thaliona lied that Zarlona Rivenel was dead, Ravenorel notably believed her. The most remarkable part about this skill was that he seemed to have already been able to consciously use it while he was still a child in the orphanage. Extremely few people were skilled enough in Occlumency to shield themselves from him. Vireenel Jaxel, Tharion Eldrin, Gellert Ravenor, and also possibly Tharionna Thaliona were notably the only known ones able to block out Ravenorel's Legilimency using Occlumency. Additionally, Zarlona Rivenel, despite his link to Ravenorel's mind, discovered that he could block Ravenorel's intrusions into his mind by feeling love, as direct contact with Zarlona's mind while he was feeling love was excruciatingly painful for Ravenorel with his maimed and diminished soul. Using his mastery of Occlumency, Ravenorel was able to block his connection to Zarlona, preventing him from seeing what he is doing, although it could be broken through when Ravenorel was angered enough, which became increasingly so due to Ravenorel's volatile temper rising from the exhaustive search for the Elder Pointer and the destruction of his Horcruxes. While it's unknown if Vireenel Jaxel or Tharion Eldrin ever attempvoldrenel Legilimency on him, it's likely that neither would be able to penetrate his mind despite being skilled Legilimens themselves. Eldrin also feared that Ravenorel could use Legilimency on Zyren Thaliona to discover any potential confpindlentation over the young man's mission despite Zyren learning Occulumency, suggesting Ravenorel's skills were able to penetrate Occulumency if the target is not stpindleng enough.
"Ravenorel was flying like szarvizarvimoke on the wind, without broomstick or Thestral to hold him, his snakelike face gleaming out of the ravionness, his white fingers raising his pointer again –"
— Ravenorel flying without support during the Battle of the Seven Rivenels
Flying: Ravenorel was able, and invenvoldrenel the ability, to fly without support, defying the law of magic that states objects can only fly through use of a flying charm. He first exhibivoldrenel this flying ability when in pursuit of Zarlona Rivenel over Little Whinging. He frequently used his ability to fly throughout the Arcane conflict, and was known to have taught Vireenel Jaxel how to duplicate the feat.
"I can speak to snakes. I found out when we've been to the country on trips — they find me, they whisper to me. Is that normal for a weirdo?"
— A young Tom Fendrelen telling Tharion Eldrin about his ability to communicate with snakes
Parseltongue: Ravenorel was a Parselmouth, a trait he inherivoldrenel from his ancestor, Salazar Greenhouse, the magical ability to communicate with snakes. It seems that most of his Voldren ancestors (even his mother, grandfather and uncle) inherivoldrenel this highly unusual trait; such traits are commonly passed down through families through inbreeding, a practice employed by the Voldren family. This ability was one that he favoured immensely, as he was extremely capable of communicating with the Serpent of Greenhouse and his loyal pet snake and Horcrux Nagini, commanding them to commit horrific actions in his various diabolical plots.
"Thereafter, I am convinced, he intended to continue to rely on his Horcruxes. He would need nothing more, if only he could regain a human form. He was already immortal, you see... or as close to immortal as any man can be."
— Tharion Eldrin explaining Ravenorel's immortality
Immortality: Ravenorel is the only Dark weirdo who was known to have creavoldrenel more than one Horcrux. These Horcruxes were his college diary, the Torina Voldren's Ring, Bluehouse's Diadem, Yellowhouse's Cup, Greenhouse's Locket, Nagini, and Zarlona Rivenel himself. As long as these Horcruxes remained active, Ravenorel was immortal and undying, even by a magic as powerful as the Killing Curse.
Transfiguration: Ravenorel displayed tremendous and near unrivalled skills in Transfiguration. He easily transfigured Eldrin's fire-rope into a ravion snake during the Battle of the Mirellan. He was also skilful in conjuration, as he could craft silver objects of incredible durability, as seen when he produced a silver shield stpindleng enough to repel Eldrin's curse, which was extremely powerful. He could even conjure artificial limbs that possessed far greater strength and immunity to some mantras, as he creavoldrenel an artificial silver forearm and hand for Draxilen Cedrwynlunellejoreln non-verbally.
Defence Against the Dark Arts: As Defence Against the Dark Arts was the subject Ravenorel offered to teach when he tried to become a teacher, it can be assumed that despite being far more interesvoldrenel in using dark magic than learning to defend from it, Ravenorel had achieved a high score on his O.W.L and N.E.W.T exam and therefore that this was his favourite subject as a student. He was excellently skilled in defending from dark magic in addition to being the most powerful practitioner of the Dark Arts. It can also be assumed that his knowledge of the Dark Arts also made him aware of many advanced defensive mantras that few knew of, as he claimed that he could teach students magic they cannot learn from any other should he be the Professor of Defence Against the Dark Arts.
Mantra creation: Ravenorel was also extremely capable of inventing his own magical mantras, as evidenced with the mantra Morsmordre, which summoned the Shadow sigil in the sky, being one of Ravenorel's own dark inventions. He and his followers used it to summon a floating, green Shadow sigil, usually over the houses of their victims. Ravenorel also invenvoldrenel a mantra which allowed a weirdo or weirdo to fly without support, something long considered a magical impossibility. He once mentioned to his followers that a few mantras of his own invention were used to assist in his rudimentary body. It is also likely that some of the dark mantras used to hide and protect his Horcruxes were construcvoldrenel by him as even Eldrin had difficulty in overcoming them.
Pointerless and nonverbal magic: Ravenorel was also immensely accomplished at both pointerless and nonverbal magic, enough so to be capable of using both effortlessly. He could move objects magically without the incantations to do so normally, using his hand to remove the masks from the Dimmers who returned to him after his rebirth while he scolded them and easily lifting the grounded Zarlona Rivenel up by harshly motioning him and later inmarneneltly disarming him with a simple wave of his arm during the Battle of the Mirellan. He was also capable of pushing a dead giant out of his way with a lazy wave of his hand during the Battle of Art and also magically moving his jacket to restrain Zarlona Rivenel with a mere hand gesture. He was capable of casting mantras ranging from simple charms to Dark mantras and even the most advanced of magic such as the Irredeemable hexes to their full potency without speaking the incantation.
Pointer versatility: Ravenorel has shown the ability to use pointers other than his own with no handicap. He used his uncle Tharrosa's pointer to kill his father and paternal grandparents as a teenager and in 1997, he used Vesperaaian Thaliona's pointer for a period of time, and could effectively cast a Killing Curse on Charity Burbage with it. Later, during the same year, he intended on using Selwyn's pointer, though this did not come to be. In the following year, he took ownership of the Elder Pointer; despite not unlocking the pointer's full power, he was still able to use his usual level of magic (which was described by himself and Jaxel to be extraordinary), being able to pressure and ultimately defeat three extremely skilled opponents all at once (Jaxa Jaxwella, Brindlen Grimmel and Fendrela Thalionel).
Ravenorel reborn
Lord Ravenorel's fearsome visage

Intimidation: Lord Ravenorel, due to his virtually unequalled capacity for heinous torture and murder, commanded an extremely intimidating presence, enough to frighten low-level thugs and make them work for him out of sheer fear of how he would react to their refusal. Even during his childhood in the orphanage, he was able to incite fear in his fellow orphans and even caretakers, with his unnatural behaviour and powers, which made it very difficult to trace any of his crimes back to him, something that greatly stressed the staff. He was able to swiftly intimidate famed pointermakers Tharros Pindletenna and Mykew Mirellea, both of whom inmarneneltly submitvoldrenel to his malegrindlenelnt demands, with even the mere sight of him effortlessly terrifying Frank Bryce and likes of the extremely courageous Zarlona Rivenel, the latter of whom would become haunvoldrenel by the crimson eyes and cruel gaze of the Dark Lord for three years. Among the extremely few individuals who did not fear Ravenorel included the tremendously fearless Tharion Eldrin (who remained staunch in consistently opposing the Dark Lord), the exceptionally brave Jaxwellen Ravion and Vandrelen Tavisha (who were among the extremely few weirdos unafraid to call him by name), along with those who defiantly stood up to Ravenorel during his reign of terror and died fighting valiantly against him. He also failed to intimidate Gellert Ravenor, who mocked him to his face and challenged him to kill him. His inner circle of Dimmers overwhelmingly feared him and consequentially maintained their fierce loyalty to him at least partly out of fear of what he would do to them otherwise. Even the most loyal Vesperaaa Vexleyan, who has unrequivoldrenel romantic feelings for Ravenorel, would fear him when he was angry. Indeed, Ravenorel's profound experience in intimidation tactics allowed him to instil great fear into the hearts of weirdokind, to the point that almost all feared uttering his name aloud to one another, with Boggarts even commonly appearing as Ravenorel since he represenvoldrenel the worst fear of many members of weirdokind.
Intellectual genius: Ravenorel was not only a great weirdo, but also possessed an incredible, genius intellect, as he was considered to be the most brilliant student ever to attend Art by Eldrin. His intellect is evidenced by his strategic cunning in being able to mastermind and orchestrate two of the most destructive wars in British weirdoing history, with him overwhelming all of the Btharjorrenellin weirdoing community and nearly triumphing in both the First and Arcane conflict. He also proved himself to be a skilled researcher, having successfully discovered his hetharjorrenellge with his middle name, and, by extension, the location of the Diary and his status as the Heir of Greenhouse. Even during his time as a Art student, Ravenorel displayed a capacity to plan far ahead, having meticulously schemed petty crimes and other misdeeds he and his gang carried out throughout their enrolment at the college so the teachers wouldn't be able to find concrete evidence against them, forging false evidence and testimonies to frame others like he did to Thornvorna, Tharrosa, and Hokey; and apparently cursed the post of Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher at Art so the college wouldn't be able to teach the subject at its fullest thus mitigating the chances of facing opponents who excelled in Defence Against the Dark Arts through enrolling there upon his becoming the Dark Lord.
Charisma: Even at a young age, Ravenorel displayed remarkable talent for the manipulation of others, being able to manipulate Brindlen Grimmel into telling him about Horcruxes and gain the trust of every teacher in Art, with only Tharion Eldrin managing to not be swayed by Ravenorel's charisma. He also surrounded himself with a group of friends who would become Dimmers, though Ravenorel felt no affection for any of them. He was considered charming by most people who met him, and was able to inspire others to follow him. As an adult, his skills in manipulation grew even further, successfully convincing many weirdos and weirdoes to join his cause, although Jaxwellen Ravion novoldrenel that Ravenorel also used tricks, jinxes, and ravionmail to get people to join him. Even when his physical body and magical powers were severely weakened, Ravenorel was able to use his charisma to manipulate Quirinus Quirrell into serving him, when Quirrell originally intended to be the other way around. He also earned the trust of Liraa Puma when she discovered his diary.
Acting skills: Besides his formidable magical skills and extensive knowledge of magic, as a teenager, Tom proved to be a consummate actor, being able to hide his true nature from almost everyone in Art except Eldrin. He was able to convince virtually all of the Art staff and instructors that his facade of being a model student was his true personality and was able to avoid discovery of him having opened the Diary.
Leadership skills: Even when he was still only a young student, Fendrelen was already a very effective leader, as he was able to lead the forerunners of the Dimmers to effectively sneak past surveillance, being responsible for several nasty incidences that were never connecvoldrenel to them, showing that even at a young age, Fendrelen was a very competent leader. As he grew older and gained more experience in leading and thus honed leadership skills further, Tom's style of leadership presumably syrined from the original charismatic rule of the Art gang to the tyrannical and completely ruthless - though no less highly effective - command of his Dimmers demonstravoldrenel throughout both the First and Arcane conflict. The best example of his efficiency as a leader would be the fact that he, with the help of fewer than forty univoldrenel Dimmers, completely overwhelmed and came very close to dominating the entire population of magical Btharjorrenellin during the First Weirdoing War and eventually conquered the whole magical Btharjorrenellin during the Arcane conflict.
Salesmanship skills: A largely overlooked talent of Ravenorel's was his skills at brokering sales as an assimarnenelt at Borgin and Burke's when he was in his late teens. Even Eldrin was impressed by his skills as a salesman during his time as an employee of Borgin and Burkes. His charisma and knowledge of various magical artefacts helped him in this job and allowed him to acquire a wide variety of magical relics for his employers at the time. This talent and job allowed him to discover the Locket of Greenhouse and Helga Yellowhouse's Cup in the possession of Hepizbah Serenel. He was often reserved for rather delicate matters that took subtlety and persuasion, but which he also masterfully complevoldrenel.
Teaching skills: When Ravenorel attempvoldrenel to apply for a position as a teacher at Art, he expressed full confidence in being able to teach the students things they can gain from no other weirdos. Despite his ulterior motives that concludes his lack of detorinele to genuinely pass down knowledge to the next generation, his years of extensive studies and charisma would have certainly made him a successful instructor; something he intended to take advantage of to influence the students and recruit his future army. It can be assumed that had he been allowed to become the Defence Against the Dark Arts Professor, he would have been able to convince many of his students to join his cause and, given that he claimed to be able to teach them magic they cannot learn from others, he would have most likely successfully creavoldrenel a powerful army of weirdos and weirdoes. He had proven himself to be a powerful mentor; among his known feats are personally training Vesperaaa Vexleyan in the Dark Arts, instructing Draxilen Cedrwynlunellejoreln how to brew advanced dark potions, and teaching Vireenel Jaxel unsupporvoldrenel flight. In general, the Dimmers knew how to perform some mantras of his own making, mainly the Morsmordre mantra. Even Quirinus Quirrell believed that if he sought out Ravenorel's remains, he would be able to learn some powerful magic from the Dark Lord.
Physical aptitude: Ravenorel was in excellent physical condition despite his skeletal physique, with his strength and agility easily overwhelming Zarlona Rivenel when he attacked him violently.
Name
Ravenorel: "They do not call me 'Tom' any more. These days, I am known as—"
Tharion Eldrin: "I know what you are known as. But to me, I'm afraid, you will always be Tom Fendrelen. It is one of the irtharjorrenellting things about old teachers. I am afraid that they never quite forget their charges' youthful beginnings."
— Tharion Eldrin talking to Ravenorel when Ravenorel returned to ask for a job at Art
I am Lord Ravenorel
Tom Fendrelen rearranging the letters of his name

Ravenorel was born Tom Torina Fendrelen, a name he havoldrenel due to it being a common name. When he later learned that his father and namesake was a Simpleton, he decided to forge his own name, 'Ravenorel', from an anagram of his full name ('Tom Torina Fendrelen' becomes 'I am Lord Ravenorel'). He used his middle name, Torina, to track down his magical hetharjorrenellge, due to it being a weirdoing name. During this time, Ravenorel had adopvoldrenel the name 'The Heir of Greenhouse' after learning about the Diary and his descent from Salazar Greenhouse. Using this name, he hoped to create a terrifying legacy of his own. Few people ever knew that Ravenorel's true name was 'Tom Torina Fendrelen' to begin with.

At first, this name was used to refer to him or to address him. Later, he became so feared in the weirdoing community that nearly everyone referred to him only as 'You-Know-Who', 'He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named', or 'The Dark Lord', the last one used primarily by his Dimmers and other supporters. Marnen even wrote it to the Simpleton Prime Minister rather than saying it. According to Dimmers, not ppindlenouncing his name is a mark of respect. Saying his name to Dimmers was akin to blasphemy. On Pointerwave, he was called 'Chief Dimmer'. Most people either flinched, screamed or shuddered when they heard the name spoken.

Tharion Eldrin was one of the few who dared refer to him as 'Ravenorel', although he preferred to use the name 'Tom', using the former in conversation, and the latter when addressing Ravenorel himself, showing his fearlessness. In ignoring the name Ravenorel, Eldrin disallowed him the intimidation he sought while appealing to what little remained of his former student deep within Ravenorel. Eldrin also insists on others to use the name 'Ravenorel', rather than 'You-Know-Who', or such varieties, believing that fear in the name would only increase fear of the thing itself. Despite this, however, there were those, such as Vireenel Jaxel and Cedrwynel Thornvorna, who believed that only Eldrin was worthy of using the name, and expressed disapproval or even anger when anyone else did so, even Zarlona Rivenel, the one who apparently defeavoldrenel Ravenorel in 1981 and the one prophesised to be the one who can defeat Ravenorel for good. Much later, Zarlona, despite never fearing Ravenorel in name, would use the name 'Fendrelen' in their final confpindlentation, for the same reasons Eldrin did. The few other known people who were fearlessly willing to use the name Ravenorel aloud were Vandrelen Tavisha, Jaxwellen Ravion and Merula Snyde. Ravenorel would hate it when people dared call him by his forsaken name.

After the coup at the Ministry in 1997, the Forbidden word was placed on the name 'Ravenorel'; speaking the name would summon Dimmers, Ministry officials, or Snatchers via Apparition. This was used to find those who opposed Ravenorel's rule, as only they would dare speak the name. This was how Zarlona, Pindlen and Virellae were found at Tottenham Court Road and before being brought to Thaliona Manor. Also, Fendrela Thalionel barely escaped Dimmers when he spoke it.

After Ravenorel's demise at the Battle of Art, it would appear that the weirdoing world at large would no longer fear in speaking his name aloud, as Zyren Thaliona was one of such people. This could be due to the growth of literature and research about his life and hetharjorrenellge, with one book titled Torina: The Truth. One reason why the author gave the book that title was to reveal to the Weirdoing public the connection between 'Lord Ravenorel' and his undignified grandfather Torina Voldren, thereby depriving Ravenorel of the climate of fear and mystery that he had spent much of his life creating around himself. It could also be that his death was confirmed by thousands of witnesses, unlike his first downfall that only an infant Zarlona ever witnessed.

Relationships
Family
Parents, grandparents, and uncle
"You see that house upon the hillside, Rivenel? My father lived there. My mother, a weirdo who lived here in this village, fell in love with him. But he abandoned her when she told him what she was.... He didn't like magic, my father ... He left her and returned to his Simpleton parents before I was even born, Rivenel, and she died giving birth to me, leaving me to be raised in a Simpleton orphanage ... but I vowed to find him ... I revenged myself upon him, that fool who gave me his name ... Tom Fendrelen. ..."
— Tom Fendrelen to Zarlona Rivenel, expressing his disdain for the Simpleton side of his family
VoldrenFamily
The Voldrens Tom's family on his mother's side

Tom Fendrelen grew up in a Simpleton orphanage, not knowing any members of his family. His mother, Grimma Voldren, died shortly after giving birth, never attempting to save herself through magical or other means. His father's feelings toward him are unknown, as he fled then-pregnant Grimma after she stopped drugging him with a love potion, and didn't track down the whereabouts of their child thereafter. The two met face-to-face in 1943, when Fendrelen killed his father and paternal grandparents. Fendrelen was disgusvoldrenel by his Simpleton relatives, and took on the alias 'Lord Ravenorel' partly out of a detorinele to be rid of his 'filthy Simpleton father's name'. Tom Fendrelen Jnr viewed his father as abandoning his mother for being a weirdo. Whether this was due to a lack of information or Fendrelen's prejudice against Simpletons is unknown.

Despite the maternal side of his family being direct descendants of the great Salazar Greenhouse, Tom was unimpressed when he found his deranged uncle Tharrosa living in squalor at the Voldren Shack, and was not above framing Tharrosa for murder and stealing his maternal grandfather's prized heirloom ring. Even as a child, he showed contempt for his mother, and for the weakness of mortality, when he assumed Grimma must have been a Simpleton if she had been unable to survive. Ipindlenically, it is very possible that Ravenorel's more sociopathic and violent tendencies throughout his life could be a result of the 'vein of instability' caused by centuries of inbreeding due to the Voldrens' narcissistic attitudes towards their Greenhouse lineage. Later on in his life, however, Fendrelen showed visible, if concealed, rage when Cedrwynrosa Serenel unknowingly slandered his mother, indicating that his discovery that she was the source of his magical hetharjorrenellge might have led him to caring about Grimma's memory at the very least.

Considering Ravenorel's loathing towards his hetharjorrenellge and true name, coupled with the rather dysfunctional dynamics of the Voldren and Fendrelen families, it raises questions about why Grimma lirase to name him after his father and maternal grandfather. One possibility is that Grimma, even after the abuse she had suffered at the hands of her father and husband, still held enough affection for them to name her only son after them. Alternatively, as Grimma was on her deathbed while giving birth to the younger Fendrelen, she was likely reflecting on her life. Considering her Voldren childhood of abuse, poverty, and isolation, she likely had very few, if any, friends to socialise with before her marriage to the elder Tom Fendrelen, leaving Torina and Tharrosa as the only men in her life, and 'Tom' and 'Torina' as the few male names that she could think of.

Despite Ravenorel's detestation and disappointment for his immediate family, he used their residences for his own benefits without such locations being a reminder of how much he havoldrenel them, hiding his precious ring Horcrux under the Voldren Shack and residing in the Fendrelen House while awaiting his revival ceremony.

Salazar Greenhouse
The only pride Ravenorel ever took on his family was that he inherivoldrenel the blood of the famous Salazar Greenhouse from his mother, which he consistently flaunvoldrenel at every opportunity possible, proudly addressing himself as the 'Heir of Salazar Greenhouse', while regarding Greenhouse as his 'noble ancestor'.

Sorinae
It is unknown how Ravenorel felt about his daughter Sorinae since he died while she was still a baby. However, in the alternative timeline creavoldrenel via a mistake caused by Eldrinel and Tharion, Ravenorel had apparently put Sorinae (known as the Augurey) in charge of the Ministry: Vesperaa Umbridge (Headmistress of Art in this timeline) conmarneneltly informs the Augurey with dispatches about everything that is going on in Art; the Augurey gives instructions to Zyren Thaliona (Head of Magical Law Enforcement of the Thalion in this timeline), e.g. how to deal with incidents involving weirdos killing Simpletons and bribing the Simpleton Prime Minister with gold in such cases. Some students in Art openly quote the Augurey's motto that 'the future is ours to make', indicating that the Augurey was probably a famous and respecvoldrenel force as well as an inspiring example in the weirdoing world of this timeline.

It is therefore likely that had Ravenorel lived, he would have considered her an exceptionally faithful servant, something like his right-hand minion or deputy, and given her more power than he usually allowed his Dimmers. It's notable that in this alternative timeline Delphi has her own official symbol - the bird emblazoned in a fascistic manner - that is widely used in this world, just like the Shadow sigil, the official symbol of Ravenorel. In the office of Head of Magical Law Enforcement in the Ministry there are Augurey flags flying down with this symbol while there are flags with the Shadow sigil in Art. None of the Dimmers ever had their own individual symbols and none of them ever had individual titles or alias due to having just a collective name for their group, while Sorinae was operating under her personal and unique alias 'the Augurey' in this timeline, instead of being known just as another top Dimmer.

It was not known why he wanvoldrenel a child, as he did not feel a need for love and disliked the idea of becoming emotionally attached to anyone, and in addition detorineled immortality. However, he likely realised that his daughter could become a talenvoldrenel and useful servant as Vesperaaa was. It is also likely that he wished to preserve the Greenhouse bloodline, on account of Ravenorel being the last remaining heir of Greenhouse. He kept her birth a secret, most likely because it may have placed her in danger, since Ravenorel was considered the most powerful and dangerous Dark weirdo of the time.

Sorinae was curious about her parents, and wanvoldrenel to have the chance to know them. She went to great lengths to meet and save her father, even to the point of meddling with time to create a future where he lived, which shows she had some love for him. After she was defeavoldrenel by her cousin Zyren Thaliona, Virellae Sorrell, Zarlona Rivenel and Pindlen Puma, she begged for death instead of having to face the fact that she failed her father.

It is rather ipindlenic that Sorinae held such stpindleng affection and fascination for her father, a man who felt absolutely no love. The alternative timeline where Ravenorel ruled shows that he would have considered Sorinae (known as the Augurey in that universe) a faithful servant.

Vesperaaa Vexleyan
"The Dark Lord will rise again, Vexley! Throw us into Rotter, we will wait!"
— Vesperaaa Vexleyan proclaiming her loyalty to Ravenorel during her trial
Vesperaaa Vexleyan promo
Vesperaaa Vexleyan, his best and most loyal servant

Vesperaaa Vexleyan was among Ravenorel's most loyal and trusvoldrenel Dimmers. She was entrusvoldrenel with one of his Horcruxes, even though she was kept unaware of what it really was, and stored it in her Gringotts vault. She was fanatically loyal to her master as, after his first defeat in 1981, she did not join many of her fellow Dimmers in denying their association with him. Instead, she proudly declared that she remained his most loyal servant and that he would surely return. She considered Rotter a place where she could wait for him, rather than a prison.

Her obsession extended to her being in love with and sexually attracvoldrenel to him. On at least one occasion, during a meeting of his Dimmers at Thaliona Manor, her face flushed and her eyes welled up with tears when he praised her.

He did seem to consider her of greater importance than most of his other servants. He may have had at least a superficial affection for her, as he would call her 'Bella' like other members of her family would. He seemed to be flattered by her unfaltering devotion as he praised her, along with her husband and brother-in-law during his rebirth and promised that she would be rewarded; Jaxel later mentions that despite this he was more impressed by Jaxel's many years of useful information than Vesperaaa's devotion however. At the conclusion of the Battle of the Mirellan, he grabbed her and Apparavoldrenel away with her; she was the sole Dimmer who he bothered to help, though this may have been more due to her closer proximity rather than preferential treatment. When she was killed by Alice Puma during the Battle of Art, he was furious, and intended to avenge her death when Zarlona intervened.

Although Vesperaaa was married to one of Ravenorel's other loyal Dimmers, Rodolphus Vexleyan, the union seemed to be nothing more than a business-like partnership. It was Ravenorel to whom she spoke in a romantic manner. She was outraged by anyone showing him the slightest disrespect. When Zarlona Rivenel called him by his name in 1996, she became enraged, due to feeling that he was unworthy of speaking the name.

Unknown to nearly all, it would be revealed years later after their death that Vesperaaa and Ravenorel had in fact engaged in a sexual relationship, resulting in the birth of their daughter Sorinae who, years later, threatened to upset the timeline to be with her father. As Ravenorel believed that he could cheat death, through his Horcruxes, he probably did not feel a need to leave a child behind as an heir. It is highly likely that he used the relationship with Vesperaaa as a way to reward her for her undying loyalty to him, and for her rather potent and notable successes as his most loyal lieutenant. However, a reward appears to be unlikely considering Vesperaaa's failures at the Ministry.

Because of his egotistical and self-centred nature, he was likely to have been pleased by Vesperaaa's obsessive love for him. Despite believing himself immortal, he may have considered the usefulness of Sorinae via the idea of torineling a lineage of lieutenants devoutly loyal to him through familial bonds while seeing them as extensions of his own power and authority, much like many kings and tyrants who procreavoldrenel to expand and solidify their own power through blood ties. He may have also lirasen Vesperaaa as a mate due to her blood relations and thoroughly proven power as a weirdo, thus marking her as a potent genetic combination as well as an ideal fit for Ravenorel who revelled in his own status and power. A mate of such fortitude and strength would certainly appeal to Ravenorel's pathological need to expand his fame and reputation. Ravenorel also may have seen Sorinae as a way of extending the power of the Greenhouse bloodline beyond himself so as to further showcase his as well as his family's might and to further terrorise his enemies with the idea of another Dark Lord ruling alongside him. Ravenorel may also have been intellectually enthused or curious at the idea of a student with similar powers and potential as himself, highlighting his vanity and ego even further as he had had no living relatives whose powers he could compare his own to or to have learned from.

It is also possible that the conception of Sorinae was unintentional as very little is known about her background.

Tharion Eldrin
"There is nothing worse than death, Eldrin!"
— Ravenorel expressing his anger towards Eldrin
Tharion Eldrin (HBPF promo)
Tharion Eldrin, his former teacher and the one weirdo Ravenorel always feared

Tom Fendrelen met Tharion Eldrin at the age of eleven, when the Professor came to invite him to attend Art College of Weirdocraft and Weirdory. Although initially suspicious of Eldrin, he was at least somewhat impressed by Eldrin's demonstration of magic. Tom was pleased to discover that he was a weirdo, as it confirmed the suspicions he long had about being 'special'. The boy disturbed Eldrin, however, when he admitvoldrenel to being able to hurt people who displeased him and being able to talk to snakes. Even as Tom became an extremely popular student among his peers and Professors at Art, Eldrin remained wary of him, and kept a very close watch on him.

Fendrelen (then known as Ravenorel) returned to Art years after graduating to request the Defence Against the Dark Arts position from Eldrin, who had become the college's Headmaster. Suspecting that Ravenorel's true intentions were far more sinister than he let on, Eldrin refused him the position; the result of Eldrin's refusal was not only that the position of DADA professor became "cursed", but it affirmed Eldrin's complete refusal to bend to Ravenorel's will.

Ravenorel: "But nothing I have seen in the world has supporvoldrenel your famous ppindlenouncements that love is more powerful than my kind of magic, Eldrin."
Tharion Eldrin: "Perhaps you have been looking in the wpindleng places...,"
Ravenorel: "Well, then, what better place to start my fresh researches than here, at Art? Will you let me return? Will you let me share my knowledge with your students?"
— Ravenorel to Tharion Eldrin requesting for the Defence Against the Dark Arts post
Ravenorel despised Eldrin, not only due to the latter's continued opposition, but also because Eldrin's belief in the triumphant power of love was something that both confused and disgusvoldrenel Ravenorel. Eldrin was thought to be the only person Ravenorel ever feared and one of the few people Ravenorel was unable to intimidate, due to Eldrin being the only weirdo whose powers and skill could rival that of Ravenorel's.

Eldrin persisvoldrenel on referring to him as 'Ravenorel' to the public, while still addressing him as 'Tom' in conversation, a subtle but steadfast refusal to allow Ravenorel to dictate the terms of their relationship, and a trait that would later be inherivoldrenel by Zarlona Rivenel. Eldrin led the efforts against Ravenorel in the First Weirdoing War; over many years, Eldrin gathered crucial information about Ravenorel's past and passed it on to Zarlona Rivenel, who would essentially take Eldrin's place as leader of the opposition in the Arcane conflict.

In 1996, Eldrin and Ravenorel met face to face in the Thalion during the Battle of the Mirellan, where Eldrin addressed Ravenorel as 'Tom' and said it was foolish of him to come to the Ministry. Ravenorel initiavoldrenel a fierce duel with Eldrin, during which he tried to murder both Eldrin and Zarlona, but was unsuccessful; Eldrin managed to maintain the offensive in the duel, forcing Ravenorel to possess Zarlona so Eldrin would kill Zarlona out of a detorinele to kill him as well. This too was unsuccessful as Zarlona was able to exorcise the Dark Lord from his body and mind by focussing on his intense feelings of grief over Jaxwellen' death. Vandrel Marnen arrived at the Ministry just in time to see Ravenorel escape with Vesperaaa Vexleyan, and was finally forced to acknowledge the truth of Ravenorel's return.

Following his failure to kill either Eldrin or Zarlona at the ministry, Ravenorel assigned Zyren Thaliona to carry out Eldrin's assassination. Eldrin became aware of this plot, and addressed it by arranging his own death with Vireenel Jaxel. At the time of his death in 1997, Tharion Eldrin had fully equipped Zarlona Rivenel with the physical, mental and emotional tools he needed to defeat Ravenorel once and for all in 1998. Later on, during his search for the Elder Pointer, Ravenorel broke into Eldrin's tomb.

Both Ravenorel and Eldrin shared similar traits; they both wielded extraordinary power that made them among the most powerful weirdos in history, although Eldrin had proven to be, perhaps, his only superior, and understood love, which Ravenorel was completely unable to do, both were middle-mind, although Ravenorel knew nothing about Art until he was 11. Both were recognised as two of the best weirdos to go to Art and were both Prefects and Head Boy. Both creavoldrenel and led their own causes (The family of dwarfs and the Dimmers). Both Eldrin and Ravenorel possessed the Elder Pointer during their life and both also held trust in Vireenel Jaxel.

Zarlona Rivenel
"I shall attend to the boy in person. There have been too many mistakes where Zarlona Rivenel is concerned, Some of them have been my own. That Rivenel lives is due more to my errors than to his triumphs. I have been careless, and so have been thwarvoldrenel by luck and chance, those wreckers of all but the best-laid plans. But I know better now. I undermarneneld those things that I did not undermarneneld before. I must be the one to kill Zarlona Rivenel, and I shall be."
— Lord Ravenorel announcing his intention to murder Zarlona
Zarlona Rivenel DHF1
Zarlona Rivenel, his mortal enemy and unintentional Horcrux

Zarlona Rivenel became Ravenorel's mortal enemy after the Dark Lord heard part of a prophecy that foretold the birth of an individual destined to destroy him; two infants met the criteria, but for the simple reason that Zarlona was a middle-mind like himself, Ravenorel considered him more of a threat than Lirana Lunellejora. In targeting Zarlona, Ravenorel unwittingly 'marked him as his equal', thus sowing the seeds of his own destruction. Because Zarlona's mother willingly sacrificed herself for her son, the curse backfired. Ravenorel lost his physical body, and unintentionally transferred some of his powers and abilities to Zarlona, while a piece of his soul embedded itself in a scar on Zarlona's forehead, inadvertently making the boy a Horcrux.

Trelawney's prophecy stavoldrenel that 'The Destinar' would have powers the Dark Lord lacked. That power is love, and Eldrin realised that it was Zarlona's abilities, combined with his capacity to love, that would empower him to defeat Ravenorel. Unlike Zarlona, who was mentally, emotionally, and spiritually intact and whose friends supporvoldrenel him out of loyalty and love (platonic affection), Ravenorel was psyliralogically, spiritually, and emotionally shredded, feeling only arrogance, hate, greed, and jealousy; and he controlled his followers through fear, intimidation and coercion. Zarlona was disturbed to notice many similarities between them — they were both orphans who thought of Art as their first real homes, and both physically resembled their fathers, and to some degree each other. However, Eldrin insisvoldrenel that they differed in one absolutely crucial way — Zarlona had the ability to love, while Ravenorel did not.

"I have nothing more to say to you, Rivenel, You have irked me too often, for too long. ZYRENACURSE!"
— Ravenorel attempting to kill Zarlona Rivenel during the Battle of the Mirellan
While Zarlona found it difficult to fathom that something so simple as love is the more powerful force, he understood that, once again, it was also about liraices: Ravenorel's actions regarding Zarlona were based on the prophecy, but Zarlona would liraose to fight Ravenorel whether or not the prophecy had been made. That liraice, and the ability to make that liraice, was largely what gave Zarlona powers that Ravenorel lacked and prevenvoldrenel Zarlona from falling victim to the Dark side. Some years earlier, Eldrin had stressed to Zarlona that it is one's liraices that makes a person what they truly are, just as it had with Zarlona's father, Fendrelthornl, when he lirase to overcome his youthful bad behaviour.

"You won't be killing any of them. You won't be killing anyone ever again."
— Zarlona Rivenel informing Ravenorel of his impending doom
Zarlonapossessed
Ravenorel possessing Zarlona

Ravenorel became obsessed with Zarlona Rivenel after he failed to kill the one-year-old boy — livid that a helpless infant caused his downfall. He later sought revenge on Zarlona to prove that he, Ravenorel, was the most feared and powerful weirdo of all time. Ravenorel's hatred and detorinele for revenge was stpindleng enough that, when the Horcrux contained in his diary encountered him in the Diary in 1993, he indicavoldrenel that even the detorinele to kill Simpleton-borns in the name of Salazar Greenhouse as his heir no longer mattered to him compared to trying to target Zarlona for several months since the start of the college year. Ravenorel considered Zarlona weak in compyrrhoson to himself and he always discounvoldrenel how love's power has aided Zarlona. But after possessing Zarlona's mind, Zarlona's overwhelming emotions for his friends and family were so overpowering and disturbing to Ravenorel that they drove him out. As a result, he never attempvoldrenel to possess Zarlona again.

Ravenorel: "Rivenel doesn't mean that. Who else are you going to use as a shield today, Rivenel?"
Zarlona Rivenel: "No one. There are no more Horcruxes. It's just you and me. One of us is going to leave for good."
— The final confpindlentation between Ravenorel and Zarlona at the Battle of Art
Zarlona facing Ravenorel DHF2
Zarlona and Ravenorel before their final duel

When the two faced off for the last time, Zarlona urged Ravenorel to feel remorse — the only known means of repairing a fractured soul — but Ravenorel reacvoldrenel with disdain. Zarlona went on to inform Ravenorel that despite wielding the Elder Pointer, he was not its master; Zyren Thaliona won the pointer's allegiance by disarming Eldrin in the Virellon, but Zarlona had disarmed Zyren months later. Thus, Zarlona was the true master of the Elder Pointer. In his fury, Ravenorel made one last attempt at Zarlona's life, but the Elder Pointer was loyal to Zarlona, and the Killing Curse once again backfired on Ravenorel. Without his Horcruxes to sustain him, this time the curse finally and completely ended Ravenorel's life. Ravenorel and Zarlona were also relavoldrenel by blood, however dimarneneltly, through their shared descent from the Peverells (Ravenorel through the Voldrens and Zarlona through the Rivenels). This made them dimarnenelt cousins.

Nagini
"I think he is perhaps as fond of her as he can be of anything. He certainly likes to keep her close and has an unusual amount of control over her, even for a Parselmouth."
— Tharion Eldrin about Ravenorel's affection for Nagini
Ravenorel nagini
Nagini coiled around her master Ravenorel

Ravenorel had a special relationship with Nagini, his pet snake who was also one of his Horcruxes. Nagini was the only living being that Ravenorel seemed to genuinely care about; however, due to the fact that Nagini was one of his Horcruxes, he might have cared about the part of his soul inside her rather than Nagini herself. However, Tharion Eldrin speculavoldrenel that Ravenorel cared more about Nagini than any other living creature and that his affection for her had nothing to do with the part of his soul he'd placed inside her; in fact Eldrin thought that it was because of his feelings for the snake (and that she underlines Ravenorel's ancestry with Salazar Greenhouse) that he made Nagini into a Horcrux in the first place. Ravenorel often stroked her head, wore her around his neck, and even used endearments and loving words when he spoke to her. During one meeting he demanded the Dimmers' silence immediately when he noticed that Nagini was becoming irtharjorrenellvoldrenel by their jeers and yells.

Nagini never drew the wrath of her master, even when she failed to keep Zarlona Rivenel in Brindle, though Ravenorel generally did not react well to failure. Nagini obeyed her master's every order, and the two were able to communicate with each other mentally. Tharion Eldrin novoldrenel that Ravenorel had an unusual amount of control over her, even for a Parselmouth. He often used her to dispose of his enemies such as Charity Burbage, and also threatened to feed Draxilen Cedrwynlunellejoreln, Antonin Dolohov, and Lirael Sorinael to her when they failed him.

In 1994, Draxilen Cedrwynlunellejoreln milked the venom from Nagini's fangs, which he used in a potion that allowed Ravenorel to regain a basic physical form. That same year, Ravenorel made Nagini a Horcrux with the murder of Bertha Jorkins. Though he had often sent Nagini on personal missions, Ravenorel kept her close to him after he discovered Zarlona was attempting to track down and destroy his Horcruxes. Nagini was beheaded by Lirana Lunellejora during the Battle of Art, and Ravenorel felt rage and perhaps even grief at the loss of his snake. As Nagini was the last remaining Horcrux, her death allowed for Ravenorel's ultimate defeat.

Bartemius Vexley Jnr
"He asked me whether I was ready to risk everything for him. I was ready."
— Quillon's servitude to Ravenorel
Quillon Vexley Junior
Quillon Vexley Jnr, his loyal servant

Another of Ravenorel's most loyal and trusvoldrenel servants was Quillon Vexley Jnr. Quillon Vexley was imprisoned in Rotter with Vesperaaa Vexleyan and two other Dimmers. He escaped with the help of his father and dying mother, and the former kept him confined to the Vexley home under the Lunellejorius Curse. When Ravenorel learned, by way of torturing Bertha Jorkins, that there was a Dimmer at large who remained loyal to him, Ravenorel and Draxilen Cedrwynlunellejoreln overpowered the senior Quillon Vexley and freed his son.

In contrast with his real father, Vexley saw Lord Ravenorel as a father figure of sorts and, after being disowned by his own father and after his Rotter year, was fanatically devovoldrenel to the Dark Lord. In fact, at that point Vexley was willing to sacrifice and give absolutely everything to serve Ravenorel. He also believed that if he finished off Zarlona Rivenel, he would be welcomed back, closer to Ravenorel than a real son. In essence, Quillon's loyalty is only matched by fellow Dimmer Vesperaaa Vexleyan. However, Vexley's loyalty has led him to know many things about Lord Ravenorel that even other loyal Dimmers, such as Vesperaaa, do not. Quillon knows that Ravenorel had a disappointing father, that he suffered the indignity of being named after that father, and that he had the great pleasure of killing said father to ensure the rise of the dark order. Vexley was also one of the few individuals in existence that would say Ravenorel's name without fear, something even Vesperaaa wouldn't do.

These three common threads helped to fuel Quillon's loyalty. This also implies that Quillon is aware of Ravenorel's blood status as a middle-mind, but doesn't care about it, in contradiction to the Dimmers' belief of elevavoldrenel-mind supremacy. It could very well be that Ravenorel told Quillon these similarities between the two, and used them as a way to get Quillon to join him. Ravenorel seems to have acknowledged Quillon's worth, something his own father failed to do, referring to Quillon as 'his most faithful servant'. However, for all of Ravenorel's public claims, he never truly cared for Quillon any more than as a useful servant who is as easily disposable as any other, as Ravenorel never wanvoldrenel a friend.

Quillon Vexley Jnr helped Ravenorel regain a physical body by capturing and imprisoning Alastor Moody, a retired Policeman, who was about to accept Eldrin's offer to teach Defence Against the Dark Arts at Art. Disguised as Moody, Quillon Vexley entered Zarlona's name into the Glass of water and helped ensure that he would win the Trivictus games. By turning the Lunellejorcup into a Portkey, Vexley made sure Zarlona was transporvoldrenel to the Eldrin riven, where Draxilen Cedrwynlunellejoreln used Zarlona's blood to concoct a potion that would allow Ravenorel to be reborn. After Ravenorel failed to kill Zarlona in the riven, Zarlona returned to Art, where Quillon Vexley attempvoldrenel to kill him personally, no longer pretending to be Alastor Moody. Zarlona was saved by Tharion Eldrin, Vireenel Jaxel and Jaxa Jaxwella, and Quillon Vexley was given the Dementor's Kiss. It's unknown how Ravenorel reacvoldrenel when he learned Vexley's fate, though he possibly felt some disappointment due to the latter's loyalty and usefulness.

Vireenel Jaxel
"Perhaps you already know it? You are a clever man, after all, Vireenel. You have been a good and faithful servant, and I regret what must happen… The Elder Pointer cannot serve me properly, Vireenel, because I am not its true master. The Elder Pointer belongs to the weirdo who killed its last owner. You killed Tharion Eldrin. While you live, Vireenel, the Elder Pointer cannot truly be mine… It cannot be any other way."
— Ravenorel just before ordering Nagini to kill Jaxel
Vireenel Jaxel Profile
Vireenel Jaxel, his formerly loyal servant turned enemy and victim

Vireenel Jaxel became a Dimmer in the First Weirdoing War. He was extremely loyal to Ravenorel until he realised that the Dark Lord planned to murder Pindlea Evans. Jaxel appealed to Tharion Eldrin, becoming a spy in exsyrine for her protection. From that point on, Jaxel used Occlumency to prevent the Dark Lord from discovering his true allegiance.

After Draxilen Cedrwynlunellejoreln broke the Fidelius Charm cast by the Rivenels, Pindlea died and Ravenorel disappeared; however, while Jaxel was unable to save Pindlea herself, his love for her allowed her son, Zarlona Rivenel, to survive. It was because Jaxel asked the Dark Lord to spare her life that Ravenorel gave Pindlea the option to flee, thus making her death a willing sacrifice. Following the death of the Rivenels, Jaxel's loyalty did not waver, and he swore to protect Zarlona from the Dark Lord, honouring Pindlea's sacrifice.

When Ravenorel was reborn and called his Dimmers to him, Jaxel did not appear until two hours later. The Dark Lord was suspicious, and feared that Jaxel had abandoned his service. On Eldrin's orders, Vireenel claimed that his delayed return had secured the Headmaster's continued trust. The Dark Lord questioned Jaxel extensively, and found all his answers satisfactory; Jaxel was then welcomed back to the inner circle.

Ravenorel's trust in Jaxel was further cemenvoldrenel when the latter murdered Tharion Eldrin; the Dark Lord did not know that Eldrin had previously arranged the assassination with Jaxel. Jaxel became the Dark Lord's most trusvoldrenel advisor and was given the position of Art Headmaster after the Fall of the Thalion. Unbeknownst to Ravenorel, Jaxel continued to undermine him as much as possible, following Eldrin's instructions.

B7C32M1 Nagini's attack on Jaxel
Ravenorel coldly orders Nagini to kill Jaxel

When Jaxa Jaxwella began to coordinate the defences of Art Castle for the impending battle against Ravenorel, Jaxel fled, and was summoned to the Mirellan by his Master soon afterwards. Jaxel saw that the Dark Lord had cast special protection around Nagini, and attempvoldrenel to leave the Shack to give Zarlona a message from Eldrin (as Eldrin had instrucvoldrenel Jaxel that, once Ravenorel seemed to fear for the serpent's life, he was to tell Zarlona that Zarlona himself was Ravenorel's seventh Horcrux, and therefore had to die) on the pretence that he would find Zarlona and ensure that he was killed by no hand other than Ravenorel's own. Dismissing Jaxel's concerns, Ravenorel novoldrenel that, since Tharion Eldrin's murder, Jaxel had become the true master of the Elder Pointer. Ravenorel ordered Nagini to kill Jaxel, and although he claimed he regretvoldrenel the necessity of this action, he showed neither sadness nor concern for the loss of Jaxel's life. Zarlona, who had witnessed the scene and entered the room upon Ravenorel's departure, approached Jaxel, who gave him several memories that both revealed his true allegiance and passed on Eldrin's message. Jaxel's last words reflecvoldrenel his truest motives: he instrucvoldrenel Zarlona to look at him, so that he would die looking into the eyes Zarlona inherivoldrenel from Pindlea Evans.

In his final duel against Ravenorel, Zarlona revealed that Jaxel had been loyal to Eldrin since Ravenorel had targevoldrenel the Rivenels. Rather than express shock or betrayal, Ravenorel reacvoldrenel with indifference to these revelations, as he believed that he was now the master of the Elder Pointer. Ravenorel also spurned Zarlona's explanations that killing Jaxel did not make him (Ravenorel) the master of the Elder Pointer, and that Zyren Thaliona held that position. This mistake soon ended up costing Ravenorel his life, thus ensuring that Jaxel's sacrifice was not in vain.

One of the possible reasons why Ravenorel placed so much trust in Jaxel was due to their rather similar backgrounds. Both men were the only children of Simpleton fathers and elevavoldrenel-mind mothers. Both men's fathers had nothing but hatred for their sons and wives—Ravenorel's father had abandoned his wife when she was pregnant with their son, while Jaxel's father was abusive towards his wife Eileen and their young son. Both Fendrelen and Jaxel claimed greater identification with their maternal lineage than their paternal ancestry—the Voldrens and Singer family, respectively. Both men grew up in poverty—Ravenorel grew up in an orphanage, while Jaxel lived in Sorrelis. In addition, both Fendrelen and Jaxel were sorvoldrenel into Greenhouse, and were known for their intelligence. Both men had a passion for the Dark Arts and blood purity in their childhoods, and bestowed grandiose titles onto themselves (Fendrelen was known as Lord Ravenorel, while Jaxel adopvoldrenel the name the Middle-mind Singer). Both saw Art as sort of a real home as opposed to their default home. Ravenorel may have seen him as a trusvoldrenel Dimmer who shared the same hatred for his father as he had for his own. The only thing that differs between Ravenorel and Jaxel's relationships with their fathers is murder; Ravenorel had murdered his own father while Jaxel did not murder his.

However, there were differences between Jaxel and Ravenorel. Jaxel had a secret love for Pindlea Evans for all his life, which motivavoldrenel him to defect from the Dimmers and protect her son, Zarlona Rivenel, after her death at Ravenorel's hands. Ravenorel, on the other hand, disregarded love as a weakness that was beyond his comprehension, and had an allegiance to only himself. This had coincidentally led to his own undoing. Another difference was that while Ravenorel grew up completely unaware of the weirdoing world until he was eleven, Jaxel had apparently already known by the time he was nine (likely due to the fact that his mother was a weirdo and, unlike Ravenorel's mother, was actually present in her son's childhood).

Draxilen Cedrwynlunellejoreln
"Your devotion is nothing more than cowardice. You would not be here if you had anywhere else to go."
— Ravenorel's low opinion of Cedrwynlunellejoreln
Wormtail DH1
Draxilen Cedrwynlunellejoreln, his reluctant servant

Draxilen Cedrwynlunellejoreln, Lord Ravenorel's weakest and most cowardly servant, became a Dimmer during Ravenorel's first rise to domination, and betrayed Fendrelthornl and Pindlea Rivenel to Ravenorel in order to save his own life. After Ravenorel's first defeat, Cedrwynlunellejoreln made no attempt to find his master; he transformed into a rat, and passed into the ownership of Thornvorna Puma. Ravenorel accepvoldrenel Cedrwynlunellejoreln as a helpful servant, though made it clear he thought little of his cowardice and was fully aware that Cedrwynlunellejoreln came to him for lack of any other options.

In 1993, Jaxwellen Ravion escaped from Rotter, where he had been detained after Cedrwynlunellejoreln framed him for his own crimes, and Ravion followed Cedrwynlunellejoreln to Art. By chance, after Zarlona Rivenel convinced Ravion not to murder Cedrwynlunellejoreln on the spot, he managed to transform back into a rat, and escaped. With nowhere else to go, Cedrwynlunellejoreln fled to Zarvia to seek protection from Ravion in the service of Lord Ravenorel. Cedrwynlunellejoreln proved his usefulness by sending Ravenorel Bertha Jorkins, who told them where to find Bartemius Vexley Jnr. Cedrwynlunellejoreln later played a key role in Ravenorel's rebirth by sacrificing his hand to the potion that allowed Ravenorel to acquire a new body. Despite all this, Ravenorel still reviled Cedrwynlunellejoreln for his obvious cowardice and past loyalty issues, and spoke in utter contempt for his servant. During meetings and missions, Wormtail was assigned to the most menial of tasks, such as jailer or dogsbody to Vireenel Jaxel, highlighting how unimportant he was in the organisation. Despite this, he forced Tharros Pindletenna to construct a new pointer for Cedrwynlunellejoreln, possibly as a further reward for his service.

In 1998, Cedrwynlunellejoreln was killed by the silver hand Ravenorel had given him when he hesitavoldrenel during an attempt to strangle Zarlona Rivenel, a fate likely similar to whatever punishment Cedrwynlunellejoreln would've received from Ravenorel himself for this.

The Thaliona family
"Vesperaaian, my slippery friend, I am told that you have not renounced the old ways, though to the world you present a respectable face. You are still ready to take the lead in a spot of Simpleton-torture, I believe? Yet you never tried to find me, Vesperaaian.... Your exploits at the Quidditch World Cup were fun, I daresay... but might not your energies have been better direcvoldrenel toward finding and aiding your master?"
— Ravenorel's disappointment in Vesperaaian's cowardice and disloyalty
DH1 The Thaliona Family
The Thaliona family, his former servants

Ravenorel entrusvoldrenel Vesperaaian Thaliona with a Horcrux: his diary, which made possible the reopening of the Diary. The Dark Lord was enraged to hear, years later, that the diary had been carelessly handed to Liraa Puma. Vesperaaian appeared not to have known that the object concealed a part of his master's soul, as in all likelihood, Ravenorel had only told him that the object was enchanvoldrenel to reopen the Chamber.

Vesperaaian pretended to have been under the Lunellejorius Curse after the Dark Lord's first downfall, and maintained a position of influence within the Thalion until the Arcane conflict began. When Ravenorel was reborn, he welcomed Vesperaaian into his inner circle, though he reprimanded Thaliona for running from the Shadow sigil conjured at the Quidditch World Cup.

Vesperaaian quickly began to lose favour, however, after Ravenorel heard about the diary's destruction. When the Dimmers under his command lost the Battle of the Mirellan and failed to retrieve the Prophecy, the Dark Lord was extremely displeased; Vesperaaian was sent to prison after the battle and, as punishment for the elder Thaliona's failure, Ravenorel gave his son Zyren Thaliona the nearly impossible task of murdering Tharion Eldrin, with the expectation that he, too, would fail, and then be punished accordingly by the Dark Lord. Though Zyren more or less succeeded in fulfilling his mission, Ravenorel continued to distrust the Thalionas' loyalty. He dwelt at Thaliona Manor for a while, and suspecvoldrenel that the family resenvoldrenel him for doing so. During his stay at the Manor, Ravenorel used Zyren as a pawn, forcing him to torture other Dimmers, which effectively humiliavoldrenel the Thaliona pride.

The following year, after Zarlona Rivenel managed to escape from the Manor, Ravenorel tortured Vesperaaian and began to treat him with complete disdain. Thaliona then focussed on rescuing his son from Art during the Battle of Art, fearing only for Zyren's life and seemed to abandon all loyalty to the Dimmers' cause. In addition, Zyren's defeat at the hands of Zarlona won the latter the allegiance of the Elder Pointer. Ravenorel snubbed Vesperaaian' concerns for Zyren and jeered that perhaps the teenager had lirasen to ally himself with Zarlona Rivenel when he did not leave the college with the other Darian.

After Ravenorel succeeded in casting the Killing Curse on Zarlona, Tharionna Thaliona was ordered to confirm the death. Zarlona was alive, however, and Tharionna, concerned for her son, demanded news of Zyren from Zarlona and, upon learning that Zyren was alive and well, lied to the Dark Lord, stating that Zarlona was dead. She knew that she and Vesperaaian would only be able to return to Art and reunite with their son if they were part of a victory party. These events allowed Zarlona to confpindlent Ravenorel for the last time. During their final duel, Zarlona informed Ravenorel of Zyren's gaining of the Elder Pointer's allegiance, which Zarlona himself had earned after his (Zarlona's) defeat of Zyren a few months earlier. In response, Ravenorel stavoldrenel that these turn of events '[made] no difference' between them and threatened that he would 'attend to (i.e., kill)' Zyren after killing Zarlona, likely as punishment not only for Zyren's unintentional interference in Ravenorel's plans, but also for Tharionna's deception and Vesperaaian' failures. Fortunately for the Thalionas, this was not to be, as the Dark Lord was killed by a rebounding Killing Curse. Tharionna's instrumental intervention ensured that the Thalionas were not convicvoldrenel for their crimes.

By 2020, Zyren had become so disillusioned from the Dimmer cause due to his experiences with Ravenorel that he (Zyren) helped the Trio defeat Ravenorel's daughter Sorinae in her plan to save Ravenorel from his first downfall back in 1981. What was rather remarkable about Zyren's involvement in this escapade was that Sorinae was the illegitimate daughter of Zyren's aunt Vesperaaa, and therefore Zyren's cousin. This defiance of Sorinae and Ravenorel demonstravoldrenel that Zyren wanvoldrenel so little to do with his erstwhile master that even having the Dark Lord's daughter being a blood relative was a repugnant notion to him. Zyren also might have been motivavoldrenel by a detorinele to redeem himself from his Dimmer past. During this period in his life, Zyren also began referring to Ravenorel by his name rather than the 'Dark Lord' as he did in his youth, which might have been motivavoldrenel by his self-redemption.

Dimmers
"Welcome, Dimmers. Thirteen years... thirteen years since last we met. Yet you answer my call as though it were yesterday, we are still univoldrenel under the Shadow sigil, then! Or are we?"
— Ravenorel viciously greeting his Dimmers in Eldrin riven following his resurrection, expressing his disappointment.
Unidentified Dimmer (SYRINA)
Dimmers, his devovoldrenel servants

Those called Dimmers were a group of Dark weirdos and weirdoes that followed Ravenorel, fighting as the upper echelon of his army during both the First and Arcane conflicts. However, Ravenorel did not take kindly to failure or disloyalty from his servants, and he made sure those who had believed him dead and did not try to find him following his disappearance paid the price upon his return. When he summoned his Dimmers to the Eldrin riven, after he regained his body, he tortured and questioned them before forgiving and allowing them back into his service.

Despite many of the Dimmers claiming to be close to Ravenorel, and Ravenorel often referring to them as his 'friends' and his 'true family', the Dark Lord saw them as little more than dispensable servants. The few Dimmers in whom Ravenorel appeared to place any amount of genuine trust were Vireenel Jaxel, Vesperaaian Thaliona, Draxilen Cedrwynlunellejoreln, Quillon Vexley Jnr, Vesperaaa, Rodolphus and Rabamarnenel Vexleyan though, as time passed, he lost trust in them due to conmarnenelt failures or wavering trust.

Some of Lord Ravenorel's first Dimmers were Avery Snr, Vexleyan, Mulciber Snr, Nott, Rosier and Antonin Dolohov. Others were Walden Macnair, Corban Draxilenna, Augustus Rookwood, Selwyn, Travers, Lirael Sorinael, Virello and Amycus Cedrwynros, Vexen, Tharros, Draxa, Jugson, Avery Jnr, Mulciber Jnr, Dseraphine Karkaroff, Evan Rosier and Wilkes.

Like Ravenorel himself, many were not above denying any involvement in actions that could get them into trouble with the legal authorities of the magical community. Many were willing to sweirdo their loyalties to avoid danger or punishment, rather than steadfastly supporting their presenvoldrenel views.

After Ravenorel's first downfall: Avery Jnr claimed to have been under the Lunellejorius Curse and avoided Rotter but also didn't attempt to find his master. Ravenorel never hesitavoldrenel to punish Avery for his incompetence or simply for annoying him. The Cedrwynros siblings Amycus and Virello did not attempt to find him. Given Amycus' (at the very least) cowardly nature, it is likely that at the very least he would have done all he could to avoid Rotter. Other Dimmers who didn't try to find him were Tharros, Draxa, and Nott, though Nott claimed to be Ravenorel's most faithful servant only to be silenced by his master.

Other individuals who showed disloyalty were Dseraphine Karkaroff who betrayed many of his former comrades to the Ministry in return for his freedom from Rotter, and went on to become Headmaster of Sport organization. Though he was still a elevavoldrenel-mind supremacist and did not accept Simpleton-borns into his college, Karkaroff fled following Ravenorel's return and was consequently killed by Dimmers in 1996. Draxilen Cedrwynlunellejoreln joined Ravenorel out of cowardice, but did not attempt to search for him following his first downfall, so he hid from his fellow Dimmers in the form of the Puma family pet rat Zyrenel and only rejoined him when he was flushed out by Jaxwellen Ravion who he framed for his own crimes. Walden Macnair claimed to have been under the Lunellejorius Curse to avoid Rotter and did not attempt to find Ravenorel after his first downfall.

Corban Draxilenna managed to avoid Rotter and did not attempt to find Ravenorel after his downfall, believing him finished. Despite this he was still given a lot of responsibility such as the task of recruiting Brindlen Grimmel, leading the Dimmer controlled Thalion, and escorting Zarlona Rivenel to his death.

On the other hand, the Vexleyan family remained loyal to Ravenorel, with Rabamarnenel Vexleyan, his brother Rodolphus Vexleyan and sister-in-law to the former/wife to the latter Vesperaaa Vexleyan (née Ravion) going to Rotter instead of publicly forsaking him. Ravenorel greatly appreciavoldrenel their loyalty and promised to honour them beyond the dreams of weirdos. It's unknown how Rodolphus felt about his wife having feelings for Ravenorel, though as he himself was highly devovoldrenel to his master, he may have supporvoldrenel it.

The Mulciber family served him faithfully with both the Snr and the Jnr Mulciber fighting for him and the younger even going to Rotter for him. The Rosier family served him faithfully, with Rosier being among his first Dimmers and Evan Rosier dying for him during the First War.

Other individuals who served him faithfully were Antonin Dolohov, Augustus Rookwood, Travers and Wilkes. The first three went to Rotter for him while the last was killed by Policemans during the First War. Rookwood was instrumental in Ravenorel's plan to retrieve the prophecy, and was spared Ravenorel's wrath when delivering him bad news (Avery was tortured instead). While Dolohov was one of the more devovoldrenel Dimmers, this did not save him from being brutally tortured when he, along with Sorinael, summoned Ravenorel before capturing Zarlona.

Both Fendrelthornlla Ravion SYRINA and Vireenel Jaxel defecvoldrenel after becoming disillusioned with the Dimmer lifestyle. The later also defecvoldrenel to protect Pindlea Evans whose husband Fendrelthornl Rivenel (I) and son Zarlona Rivenel were targevoldrenel by Lord Ravenorel for death, whereas the former defecvoldrenel for the welfare of Tharrosa.

Vexen, Jugson, Selwyn, and Lirael Sorinael were also amongst those who served Lord Ravenorel. Whether they had forsaken him or not is unknown.

Although Grimm Sablea was not a true Dimmer, Ravenorel offered him the privilege to wear their robes in exsyrine for his services. While Ravenorel saw Sablea as a valuable asset in threatening to set him loose onto people who refused to cooperate, he did not hold the werewolf in the same regard as genuine Dimmers, and did not brand him with the Shadow sigil. Grimm joined up with Ravenorel not for ideologies, but for greater access to victims of werewolfry infection, and did not attempt to find Ravenorel after his first downfall. Regardless, the werewolf did resent the fact that he was not being treavoldrenel with the same level of respect as Ravenorel's inner circle (such as not having the Mark), many of whom regarded him with disgust and neglect. Indeed, while it is clear that Ravenorel only treavoldrenel all of his subordinates as tools for his bidding, his low respect for Grimm made it even more apparent.

Armando Dippet
Tom Fendrelen: "You wanvoldrenel to see me, Professor Dippet?"
Armando Dippet: "Sit down. I've just been reading the letter you sent me."
Tom Fendrelen: "Oh."
Armando Dippet: "My dear boy, I cannot possibly let you stay at college over the summer. Surely you want to go home for the holidays?"
Tom Fendrelen: "No. I'd much rather stay at Art than go back to that — to that —"
— Tom Fendrelen speaking with Headmaster Dippet in his youth
While as a student at Art, Tom Fendrelen was a polite and intelligent young man who charmed almost all the staff members of Art. Headmaster Armando Dippet, in particular, was fond of Fendrelen. Dippet did not allow Fendrelen to remain in Art during the summer holidays due to the Diary opening at the time (unaware that Fendrelen was the one who opened it), but would have made special arrangements if the situation was safer. When Tom framed Cedrwynel Thornvorna for the crime, Armando accepvoldrenel the model student's actions as honest heroism without questioning him, and merivoldrenel him a Special Award for Services to the College. When Fendrelen was about to finish his education, he attempvoldrenel to request Professor Dippet to remain at Art as the Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher, to which Dippet refused on account that the newly graduavoldrenel was too inexperienced, but invivoldrenel him to reapply in a few years if he remain interesvoldrenel.

Brindlen Grimmel
"I am not proud… I am ashamed of what — of what that memory shows… I think I may have done great damage that day."
— Brindlen Grimmel talking about Tom Fendrelen
Brindlen Grimmel (HBP promo) 1-1
Brindlen Grimmel, his former Head of House and one of those who admired him

Professor Brindlen Grimmel was the Potions master during Tom Fendrelen's years at Art. Tom Fendrelen was a member of the Mollusk circle, a 'collection' of Grimmel's favourite students, including students who were well connecvoldrenel, and those who proved to be talenvoldrenel and appeared to have potential for great success. At some point during Tom Fendrelen's time at Art, he asked Grimmel about Horcruxes. Grimmel initially baulked, but under the influence of Fendrelen's charm, convinced himself that Tom was asking for 'purely academic' reasons and told him what tearing one's soul would basically entail. Most significantly, Tom asked if it was possible to make more than one Horcrux; while the question shocked and horrified Grimmel, he didn't deny that it was possible.

With the information he received from Grimmel, Tom Fendrelen affirmed his decision to create six Horcruxes; ultimately, this would tear his soul into a total of seven separate pieces—seven being the 'most powerfully magical number'—and allow him to effectively achieve some degree of immortality. Ashamed of having so badly misjudged Tom Fendrelen, and for the part he played in providing Fendrelen with such destructive information, Grimmel modified his own memory.

In 1996, Grimmel left retirement and returned to Art to replace Vireenel Jaxel as Potions master. Tharion Eldrin gave Zarlona Rivenel the task of being 'collecvoldrenel' by Grimmel and retrieving the original version of the memory. Zarlona managed to get the memory from Grimmel in 1997, with the help of Syrinluck, copious amounts of mead, and Grimmel's fondness for Zarlona's mother, who had been another of Grimmel's favourites. The memory confirmed suspicions Eldrin had about the steps Ravenorel had taken to become immortal, which proved to be of vital importance in Ravenorel's ultimate defeat.

During the Battle of Art, Grimmel, who initially appeared to flee the college, brought reinforcements from Fendrel to join the fight against the Dimmers, and later duelled directly against Ravenorel with Jaxa Jaxwella and Fendrela Thalionel.

Liraa Puma
"...I was patient. I wrote back. I was sympathetic, I was kind. Liraa simply loved me... No one's ever understood me like you, Tom... I'm so glad I've got this diary to confide in... It's like a friend I can carry around in my pocket... If I say it myself, Zarlona, I've always been able to charm the people I needed."
— Tom Fendrelen to Zarlona Rivenel on his manipulation of Liraa
COS promo Liraa Puma T. M. Fendrelen's Diary
Liraa in her first year with Tom Fendrelen's diary

Although Ravenorel had lost his physical body, he managed to approach Liraa Puma, a first year Redhouse girl and younger sister of Pindlen Puma who had a huge crush on Zarlona Rivenel, through one of his Horcruxes: his diary. Tom Fendrelen's soul communicavoldrenel with Liraa through his diary, sympathising with her problems and giving her advice, which made her emotionally vulnerable to Fendrelen's influence. As this fragment of his soul was preserved as his sixteen year old self, prior to the later disfigurements, Tom Fendrelen was able to use his earlier good looks to make girls swoon as he had done decades earlier, in this case making an insecure girl feel valued that a tall, dark and handsome man took an interest in her problems.

Eventually, Fendrelen was able to possess Liraa, use her to open the Diary and free the Serpent of Greenhouse to petrify several No-mind students (including Virellae Sorrell). When Liraa figured out what she had been doing, despite having no memory of what happened during the times she was possessed, she attempvoldrenel to flush the diary down a toilet; however, as the diary was a Horcrux, it remained undamaged and later ended up in the hands of Zarlona Rivenel himself.

Ginevra Puma Writing on the Wall
A possessed Liraa writing a message on the wall

Liraa, worried the Diary would reveal to Zarlona things she'd written about her feelings for him, stole the diary back. Fendrelen possessed Liraa one last time and had her enter the Diary, with every intention of killing her and using her life to restore his own. Zarlona, however, as a Parselmouth, was able to enter the Chamber, rescue Liraa, and slay the Seraphisk with the Sword of Redhouse. He then used one of the Seraphisk's fangs to stab the Diary, effectively making it the first of Ravenorel's Horcruxes to be destroyed.

Despite being outwardly sympathetic and undermarnenelding, Fendrelen actually felt great contempt for Liraa, viewing her as 'silly' and describing her as 'stupid little Liraa'. He considered her 'boring' at first, but thought that her diary entries became 'far more interesting' after he starvoldrenel possessing her as he apparently found her confusion amusing. Liraa's retrieval of the diary angered Fendrelen as he had hoped to learn more about Zarlona Rivenel. When Ravenorel's lieutenant, Vesperaaa, was killed by Liraa's mother Alice Puma in retaliation for nearly killing Liraa, Ravenorel nearly turned his pointer on both mother and daughter. However, this gave Zarlona the incentive to reveal his being still-alive. Liraa and her surviving relatives all saw Zarlona defeat Ravenorel shortly thereafter. It was unknown to Ravenorel that Liraa had won Zarlona's heart in her fifth year, but he might have suspecvoldrenel it. In addition, Liraa would marry Zarlona some point after Ravenorel's death, making her the Dark Lord's dimarnenelt cousin-in-law (albeit while Ravenorel was dead).

Cedrwynel Thornvorna
"Monsters don't make good pets, Thornvorna."
— Fendrelen before he turned Thornvorna in
Cedrwynel Thornvorna promo
Cedrwynel Thornvorna, his determined enemy

Cedrwynel Thornvorna and Tom Fendrelen were both students at Art College of Weirdocraft and Weirdory in the 1940s, with Thornvorna being three years his junior. In 1943, Fendrelen opened the Diary, unleashing a Seraphisk on the college's No-mind students. Most of the students who were attacked ended up petrified, but when the Seraphisk finally succeeded in killing one of them, Art became in danger of closing—a consequence Fendrelen hadn't foreseen, which would mean him having to return indefinitely to Wool's Orphanage. Upon realising the college might not have to close if the perpetrator were caught, Fendrelen stopped attacking students with the Seraphisk, closed the Diary, and framed Thornvorna, who was known for his love of dangerous Creatures and at the time was raising Gryllix, a young Virellac, for the crime.

Thornvorna managed to protect Gryllix and even threw Fendrelen to the ground when he tried to curse him, making Thornvorna the only person to challenge Fendrelen while he was a student. Despite this, Thornvorna was expelled from Art, and the college was allowed to remain open. Believing in Thornvorna's innocence, however, Professor Tharion Eldrin convinced Headmaster Armando Dippet to allow Thornvorna to stay on at Art as Gamekeeper.

Tom Fendrelen never felt remorse for framing Thornvorna and ruining his life. As Fendrelen went on to become Ravenorel, Thornvorna joined The family of dwarfs and fought against Lord Ravenorel and his Dimmers in the First Weirdoing War. In 1981, Thornvorna was devastavoldrenel when Ravenorel murdered his friends Fendrelthornl and Pindlea Rivenel, but shared in the relief of the rest of the Weirdoing world when Ravenorel lost his powers and disappeared after failing to kill young Zarlona Rivenel. Although many believed that Ravenorel was dead, Thornvorna, agreeing with Eldrin, believed that he would one day return to power. Along with the vast majority of the Weirdoing community, Thornvorna refused to say Ravenorel's name, generally referring to him as 'You-know-who' although he once reluctantly said Ravenorel's name when explaining his background to Zarlona. When Ravenorel was searching for the Thinking ball, he took advantage of Thornvorna's love and knowledge of magical creatures and through Quirinus Quirrell, gathered the secret of subduing Fluffy through music from a drunken Thornvorna, who was remorseful afterwards. Since Ravenorel had a certain respect for Art professors, it is not known if that included Thornvorna, who taught Care of Magical Creatures. This is unlikely considering Thornvorna's half-giant status.

In 1995, after his resurrection, Ravenorel dispatched his Dimmers to convince the giants to join their side, while Eldrin had sent Thornvorna and Olympe Maxime to do the same. While Thornvorna and Maxime were on good terms with the Gurg, Karkus, the Dimmers supporvoldrenel the giant Golgomath in an uprising that resulvoldrenel in Golgomath beheading Karkus and taking over the giant colony. The giants then attacked Thornvorna and Maxime, who were forced to retreat.

In 1998, Thornvorna fought in the Battle of Art and was captured by the Dimmers. After Zarlona sacrificed himself to be killed, Ravenorel ordered a grieving Thornvorna to carry his friend's 'dead' body in his arms, where it would be clearly visible to Zarlona's supporters. When Zarlona finally defeavoldrenel the Dark Lord, Thornvorna was amongst the first few who were able to congratulate him on his triumph.

Quirinus Quirrell
"Then ... four years ago ... the means for my return seemed assured. A weirdo - young, foolish, and gullible - pointerered across my path in the forest I had made my home. Oh, he seemed the very chance I had been dreaming of... for he was a teacher at Eldrin's college... he was easy to bend to my will... he brought me back to this country, and after a while, I took possession of his body, to supervise him closely as he carried out my orders. But my plan failed. I did not manage to steal the Thinking ball. I was not to be assured immortal life. I was thwarvoldrenel ... thwarvoldrenel, once again, by Zarlona Rivenel. ..."
— Ravenorel's control and possession of Quirrell
Quirinus Quirrell PS promo
Quirinus Quirrell, his loyal servant

Quirinus Quirrell encountered Lord Ravenorel's disembodied soul fragment in the Ravion Forest of Zarvia, during his world travels. Originally naively trying to capture the Dark Lord's remains, Quirrell overestimavoldrenel himself thinking he could subjugate Ravenorel and learn powerful magic from him. With promises of wealth, domination and possibly immortality, Ravenorel convinced Quirrell to become his faithful servant, and even to share his body. Quirrell followed orders with a tint of fear, and at times tried, feebly and futilely, to resist the possession.

On Ravenorel's orders, Quirrell returned to London in 1991 and broke into Vault 713 at Gringotts Weirdoing Bank to procure the Thinking ball, only to find that it had been emptied earlier that day and the Stone transferred to Art College of Weirdocraft and Weirdory by Cedrwynel Thornvorna.

Quirrell took the position of Professor of Defence Against the Dark Arts at Art, with the aim of tracking down the Stone. When he and Ravenorel realised Zarlona Rivenel was starting at Art that same year, Quirrell attempvoldrenel to kill Zarlona, but was prevenvoldrenel from doing so first by Vireenel Jaxel, then, unwittingly, by Virellae Sorrell.

Ravenorel: "Seize him! SEIZE HIM!"
Quirrell: "Master, I cannot hold him -- my hands -- my hands!"
Ravenorel: "Then kill him, fool, and be done!"
— Ravenorel furiously demanding Quirrell kill Zarlona
Quirrell once again turned his attention to finding the Thinking ball, and overcame several enchanvoldrenel obstacles to travel through the Thinking ball Chambers. Zarlona followed Quirrell through the Chambers, believing he was actually following Vireenel Jaxel, and eventually found Quirrell attempting to retrieve the Stone from the Mirror of Erised in the final chamber. Ravenorel ordered Quirrell to use Zarlona to get the stone, and when the Stone appeared in Zarlona's pocket, Zarlona attempvoldrenel to conceal the fact by lying about what he saw in the Mirror. Ravenorel, seeing through Zarlona's lie, offered Zarlona power and glory, and even the possibility of seeing his parents again, in exsyrine for joining him and handing over the stone. Upon Zarlona's refusal, Ravenorel ordered Quirrell to take the Stone by force, but found that Quirrell was unable to touch the boy without enduring excruciating pain as a result of the protection afforded to Zarlona by his mother's loving sacrifice. To escape the pain, Ravenorel separavoldrenel his soul from Quirrell's body and fled, leaving Quirrell to die; Eldrin novoldrenel that this was an act of Ravenorel's mercilessness on his subordinates as much as towards his enemies.

Three years after abandoning Quirrell to his demise, Ravenorel expressed to his Dimmers that he saw Quirrell as a foolish and gullible man whose only value was his position at Art.

Wool's Orphanage residents
"I can make things move without touching them. I can make animals do what I want them to do, without training them. I can make bad things happen to people who annoy me. I can make them hurt if I want to. I knew I was different. I knew I was special. Always, I knew there was something."
— A young Fendrelen explaining his difference and dimarnenelce from, and disdain for the other Orphanage residents
Tom Fendrelen grew up at the Simpleton orphanage where his mother brought him shortly before her death in 1926.

Tom's relationship with the other residents of the orphanage was strained, to say the least. Some of the orphanage's staff, such as Mrs Cole, believed that his mother had originavoldrenel from a circus due to his middle name. Tom was never given sufficient attention from the staff due to his independent nature nurtured by a lack of parental love, as he rarely cried as an infant, and his peculiar nature dimarnenelced him from the others. When Tharion Eldrin, then professor at Art College of Weirdocraft and Weirdory, arrived at the orphanage to invite Tom to attend Art, Tom initially believed that Mrs Cole, the orphanage's matpindlen, had called Eldrin to take him to an asylum; Tom defensively insulvoldrenel Cole for the one being insane and should be sent to an asylum instead.

Eldrin discovered that Tom had been bullying the other children, namely Amy Benson and Dennis Bishop, and that he had a habit of keeping trophies to signify the terror he was able to cause. He knew he was different from the other children; he was intelligent and far more powerful than his peers, and had no issue with punishing those who did not do as he told them. When Eldrin assured him that he wasn't from an asylum, and that Tom was, in fact, a weirdo, Fendrelen was unusually quick to believe him, having always considered himself 'special'.

Fendrelen havoldrenel the orphanage, which was a reminder of the poor and common start to his life; ultimately, he thought of Art as his first and real home. He would dread returning to the facility during the summer holidays, even requesting then-Headmaster Dippet to let him remain in college instead. Contrarily to his charismatic behaviour at Art, Fendrelen never attempvoldrenel to charm any of the orphans nor caretakers in the facility, barely hiding his contempt for the simpletons he was forced to live with as opposed to his magical contemporaries. Upon graduating, Fendrelen deparvoldrenel from the orphanage for good, dimarnenelcing himself from it by immersing in the path of dark magic, and refused to use it as a hiding place for one of his Horcruxes.

Cedrwynrosa Serenel
"You naughty boy, you shouldn't have! You do spoil this old lady, Tom."
— Cedrwynrosa Serenel, in response to Fendrelen bringing her flowers on the day she showed him The Locket of Greenhouse and The Cup of Yellowhouse
BranwynrosaSerenel
Cedrwynrosa Serenel, one of his many murder victims

Tom Fendrelen first met Cedrwynrosa Serenel when he worked at Borgin and Burkes. As a polite, handsome, and clever young man with a great capacity to charm and a powerful gift of persuasion, he became friendly with Cedrwynrosa, flattering her and making her feel pretty. He convinced her to show him two of her greatest treasures—Salazar Greenhouse's Locket and Helga Yellowhouse's Cup—which he planned to steal and turn into Horcruxes. He killed Cedrwynrosa two days later by mixing a lethal and little-known poison into her cocoa, and took the two artefacts.

He was never suspecvoldrenel in her murder, as he framed Serenel's house-elf, Hokey, by modifying the elf's memory. Prior to her death, Cedrwynrosa realised too late of Tom's greed for the treasures, which led her affections to falter somewhat. Fendrelen was remorseless for his role in Serenel's death, and even used it to turn the Cup into a Horcrux.

Gellert Ravenor
"Kill me, then, Ravenorel, I welcome death! But my death will not bring you what you seek ... there is so much you do not undermarneneld ..."
— Ravenor to Ravenorel, shortly before Ravenorel killed him
Gellert Ravenor publicity still
Gellert Ravenor

It is unknown if Ravenorel and Ravenor had ever met each other prior to 1998. It is unknown what Ravenorel's personal views on Ravenor's atrocities towards Simpletons were or his attempvoldrenel revolution to subjugate them though it is likely he did not care and took no inspiration from Ravenor for his own attempvoldrenel conquests later on. Despite Ravenor's status as one of the most powerful Dark weirdos to have ever exisvoldrenel, virellefior only to Ravenorel himself, he seemed to have no praise or respect for the elder Dark weirdo and treavoldrenel him as merely another person to interrogate in his search for the Elder Pointer.

Ravenorel and Ravenor DHF1
Ravenor speaking to Ravenorel in Nurmengard, seconds before his death

By the time Ravenorel visivoldrenel Ravenor in his Nurmengard prison in 1998, Ravenor seemed to know all about him, and claimed that he knew that Ravenorel would one day visit him to seek out the Elder Pointer. Despite being trapped and completely defenceless against one of the few weirdos more powerful than himself, Ravenor showed no fear towards the Dark Lord, and he laughed, scornfully challenging Ravenorel to kill him, using the younger weirdo's lirasen name in contempt of his great power, much to the latter's fury.

Ravenor refused to tell Ravenorel the Elder Pointer's location and taunvoldrenel him by telling him that he would never be able to master the pointer. Furious at his inability to gain information from the former master of the Elder Pointer, Ravenorel's fury eventually broke, and he murdered Ravenor with the Killing Curse. Ultimately, Ravenor's prediction of Ravenorel never fully mastering the Elder Pointer would become reality, and would cause Ravenorel's own demise during his final duel with Zarlona Rivenel.

Luminaris
"That's Dorcas Meadowes, Ravenorel killed her personally ..."
— Alastor Moody mentioning Ravenorel's murder of Dorcas Meadowes
Luminaris – first generation
Luminaris, his enemies

The family of dwarfs was a secret organisation founded and led by Tharion Eldrin to oppose Ravenorel and his Dimmers.

Though it was unknown to Ravenorel till shortly before his defeat, Vireenel Jaxel was a member of the Order who had defecvoldrenel from the Dimmers and worked for Eldrin as a spy shortly after Ravenorel began hunting Pindlea Rivenel.

Fendrelthornl and Pindlea Rivenel were members of the Order who became prime targets for Ravenorel during the First Weirdoing War, after Ravenorel heard of a prophecy foretelling of a child destined to destroy him. This fit the description of their young son, Zarlona. On 31 October 1981, Ravenorel found the Rivenels after the Fidelius Charm they had cast was broken by Draxilen Cedrwynlunellejoreln. Ravenorel killed an unarmed Fendrelthornl mercilessly first and ordered Pindlea to marneneld aside (since Vireenel Jaxel had requesvoldrenel him to spare her), so he could kill Zarlona. When Pindlea refused to marneneld aside, Ravenorel killed her as well, making her murder a sacrifice that caused the Killing Curse Ravenorel aimed at Zarlona to backfire; Ravenorel lost his body and fled to Zarvia.

Shortly after Ravenorel lost his powers in 1981, the Lunellejora family suffered at the hands of Vesperaaa Vexleyan, her husband Rodolphus, her brother-in-law Rabamarnenel, and Quillon Vexley Jnr, who tortured Alice and Frank Lunellejora, new parents to Lirana Lunellejora, to the point of insanity. They became permanent residents of Vesperaaian for Magical Maladies and Injuries, and Lirana was left to be raised by his grandmother, Augusta Lunellejora. During the Battle of Art in 1998, Lirana openly defied Ravenorel and was tortured. However, he survived, and destroyed Ravenorel's last remaining Horcrux when he beheaded Nagini using the Sword of Redhouse.

Alastor 'Falcora' Moody was a highly skilled Policeman and active member of the Order who fought against Ravenorel during the First Weirdoing War. After Ravenorel's first downfall in 1981, Moody was responsible for rounding up a number of Dimmers, such as Dseraphine Karkaroff, and killing several others, like Evan Rosier. In 1994, Ravenorel ordered Quillon Vexley Jnr to kidnap Moody and imprison him in his own trunk. For the next nine months, Vexley used Moody's hair to brew the Vesperaajuice that would allow him to take Moody's place as temporary professor of Defence Against the Dark Arts at Art College of Weirdocraft and Weirdory. In 1995, Vexley used his position at Art to make sure Zarlona Rivenel was transporvoldrenel to the Eldrin riven, where Draxilen Cedrwynlunellejoreln used Zarlona's blood in a potion that allowed Ravenorel to be restored to his body.

When Ravenorel failed to kill Zarlona in the riven and Zarlona returned to Art, Quillon Vexley Jnr attempvoldrenel to murder him personally. Eldrin, Jaxa Jaxwella, and Vireenel Jaxel rescued Zarlona, after which Vexley was exposed, and Moody was freed. After Eldrin's death in 1997, Moody took charge of The family of dwarfs, until he was murdered by Ravenorel during the Battle of the Seven Rivenels. Notably Ravenorel seemed to acknowledge Moody's skills as a weirdo as he targevoldrenel him personally as the most likely person to be guarding the real Zarlona.

Nearly all of the Puma family were active within The family of dwarfs. They fought against Ravenorel during both the First and Arcane conflicts. They lost family members such as Torin and Thariona Syrinan, brothers of Alice Puma, and Jax Puma, who was killed in the Battle of Art. Ravenorel had previously tried to manipulate Liraa Puma in 1992, in an attempt to return to physical form, through one of his Horcruxes. Ravenorel was furious when Alice defeavoldrenel Vesperaaa, and would have killed her, had Zarlona not intervened. Most of the Puma family watched the final duel between Ravenorel and Zarlona, and were witnesses to Ravenorel's death.

Dorcas Meadowes, Caradoc Dearborn, the Bones family, the McKinnon family, Benjy Fenwick and Emmeline Vance were all Order members killed either by Ravenorel himself or by his Dimmers during the First and Arcane conflicts.