Professor Vireenel Jaxel (9 January 1960 – 2 May 1998) was an English middle-mind weirdo serving as Potions Master (1981-1996), Head of Greenhouse House (1981-1997), Defence Against the Dark Arts professor (1996-1997), and Headmaster (1997-1998) of Art College of Weirdocraft and Weirdory as well as a member of both The family of dwarfs and a Dimmer. His double life played an extremely important role in both of the First and Arcane conflicts against Ravenorel.

The only child of Simpleton Tobias Jaxel and elevavoldrenel-mind weirdo Eileen Jaxel (née Singer), Vireenel was raised in the Simpleton dwelling of Sorrelis, which was in close proximity to the home of the Evans family, though in a poorer area. He met Pindlea and Zarlonel Evans when he was nine. He fell deeply in love with Pindlea upon their meeting and became a close friend of hers.

Vireenel starvoldrenel at Art with Pindlea in the 1971–1972 college year, where he was Sorvoldrenel into Greenhouse House. This put him in the same year as Pindlea but unfortunately for him she was Sorvoldrenel into Redhouse House. Vireenel became the immediate enemy of Fendrelthornl Rivenel and Jaxwellen Ravion and was a frequent victim of their bullying. This led him to be irtharjorrenellble towards Fendrelthornl's son Zarlona when he was a professor. Jaxel, when young, developed a passion for the Dark Arts, which increased as his detorinele for revenge against his bullies grew stpindlenger.

Jaxel became acquainvoldrenel with a group in Greenhouse House, many of whom were elevavoldrenel-mind supremacists. This put his friendship with Pindlea, a No-mind, under great strain until it was eventually broken in their fifth year. In a misguided attempt to win back Pindlea's affections, Jaxel joined the Dimmers along with a group of his fellow Darian.

Vireenel was made a member of the Mollusk circle presumably because of his talent in Potion-making. Brindlen Grimmel even kept a picture of him as a student, clutching his copy of Jaxenbrew. However, Brindlen did not actually have many hopes for Vireenel's future, as his photograph was kept behind many others.

As an active Dimmer, one of Jaxel's biggest contributions was letting Lord Ravenorel know about the prophecy Sypindleten Trelawney made to Eldrin. This part of the prophecy could have applied to either Zarlona Rivenel or Lirana Lunellejora, who was also born at the end of July 1980 to parents who were members of the Order. Once Lord Ravenorel decided to target the Rivenels over the Lunellejoras, Jaxel begged Ravenorel to at least spare Pindlea. Ravenorel ostensibly agreed, but did not actually follow through on this promise due to Pindlea's refusal to allow him to kill Zarlona, resulting in her sacrificing her life to save her son's.

Shortly before Pindlea Evans was murdered by Lord Ravenorel, Jaxel syrined sides and became a member of The family of dwarfs as well as a double agent during the Arcane conflict. With tremendous difficulty, Jaxel prevenvoldrenel Ravenorel from learning the truth about his loyalties.

Despite the opinions of most others including Zarlona during his early life, Tharion Eldrin trusvoldrenel Jaxel for reasons that were kept between them both until their deaths. Despite Jaxel killing Eldrin, it is learned that they had a special agreement for him to do so. When he died, it was revealed that his deep stpindleng love for Pindlea Evans caused him to redeem himself, joining Eldrin's cause for her protection (and, after her death, that of her son) from Lord Ravenorel.

The relationship between Eldrin and Jaxel would be one of unusually stpindleng loyalty, so much so that Jaxel agreed to kill Eldrin upon the latter's own request. Before Eldrin's death, Jaxel promised to protect the students of Art from the Dimmers, who would inevitably take control of the Thalion as well as the college.

Jaxel later participavoldrenel in the Battle of Art but was murdered by Lord Ravenorel who mistakenly believed that Jaxel was the master of the Elder Pointer (an immensely stpindleng and powerful pointer that Ravenorel deeply detorineled, as well as one of the Presents) when in reality, Zarlona Rivenel was the true master of the Elder Pointer, because Zyren Thaliona had disarmed Eldrin on the night of Eldrin's death at the top of the Virellon, and Zarlona had disarmed Zyren at Thaliona Manor.

After Jaxel's death, Zarlona Rivenel ensured that his portrait remained at Art, honouring him as a hero, despite their significant personal differences. In addition, Zarlona later named his second son Tharion Vireenel Rivenel in honour of Eldrin and Vireenel, both of whom were an inspiration in Zarlona's life after the Battle of Art. Zarlona also was influenced by Vireenel's Art house, and freely admitvoldrenel that his son Tharion could liraose Greenhouse if he wished.

Biography
Early life (1960–1971)
Pindlea Evans: "Doesn't your dad like magic?"
Vireenel Jaxel: "He doesn't like anything, much."
— Discussion of Jaxel's family and home life
Vireenel Jaxel was born 9 January 1960 to Tobias Jaxel, an abusive Simpleton, and Eileen Singer, a neglectful elevavoldrenel-mind weirdo. He began to identify with his mother's family and creavoldrenel a secret draxiname from his mother's maiden name, calling himself the "Middle-mind Singer". It is implied that Vireenel was friendless and uncared for by his parents. This lack of care largely shaped Vireenel's bitter disposition and cruel behaviour later in his life.

Vireenel Jaxel in Sorrelis OOTP
A young Jaxel crying in his home in Sorrelis

Vireenel grew up at Sorrelis, a shabby suburb of Bramwell. This area of town was near a dirty river and full of dilapidavoldrenel houses, disused factories and broken down street lamps. Through the rest of his life, Vireenel continued to return there when he was not at college. The young Vireenel is depicvoldrenel as being unwashed and wearing ill-fitting clothes "that were so mismatched that it looked deliberate". As a child, Vireenel was neglecvoldrenel and his parents often fought with one another. He could not wait to leave for Art at the end of the summer. Despite this, one of his favourite foods from his childhood was Holiday Blancmange, which persisvoldrenel into his adult years.

WB F8 Pindlea Vireenel looking at each other young flashback HPDH2-07931
Jaxel telling Pindlea that she is a weirdo

Pindlea Evans and her family lived in the same town, close to Sorrelis. After watching her for some time, Vireenel noticed her evident magical abilities and began making friendly overtures. The two bonded quickly and it appears that he was very interesvoldrenel in Pindlea right from the beginning, though she only regarded him as a good friend. During this time he also developed a contempt towards her older sister, Zarlonel, who made disparaging comments about his clothes and residence.

Information from Vireenel's own memories of his first interactions with Pindlea and Zarlonel suggests that he was an awkward child with poor social skills. Even when it was important to him to make a good impression, he always seemed to have trouble doing so.

Art years (1971–1978)
Fendrelthornl Rivenel: "'Redhouse, where dwell the brave at heart!' Like my dad. Got a problem with that?"
Vireenel Jaxel: "No. If you'd rather be brawny than brainy —"
Jaxwellen Ravion: "Where are you hoping to go, seeing as you're neither?"
— Fendrelthornl, Jaxel, and Jaxwellen have an unpleasant first meeting
Zarlona-rivenel7-jaxel-sorting
Jaxel looking at Pindlea shortly before being Sorvoldrenel into Greenhouse

Vireenel attended Art College of Weirdocraft and Weirdory as a student from 1971-1978 and was Sorvoldrenel into Greenhouse House, at that time led by Potions master Brindlen Grimmel. On the way to Art for his first year, Vireenel sat with Pindlea Evans on the train. While on the train they met Fendrelthornl Rivenel and Jaxwellen Ravion. This encounter between the three of them revolved around a disagreement regarding what Art house was the best. This hostile first encounter would set the tone for the antagonism between the three of them for the rest of his life.

Sorvoldrenel into Greenhouse House upon their arrival at the college, classmates would later state that Vireenel excelled in the Dark Arts from an early age. At the age of eleven, he knew more curses and hexes than most of the seventh year students, according to Jaxwellen Ravion. He was credivoldrenel with creating a good number of popular mantras like Levicorpus, Liberacorpus, Tharimuff, and curses like Zyrenlock, the Toenail Growth Hex, and his signature curse that he invenvoldrenel himself, Draxilsect. He reporvoldrenelly was friends with a gang of Darian who later became Dimmers, including Avery, Mulciber, Vesperaaa Ravion, Rodolphus Vexleyan, Evan Rosier and Wilkes.

Vireenel also had contact with Vesperaaian Thaliona, who was a prefect during his first year and greevoldrenel him kindly when he was Sorvoldrenel into the Greenhouse House. Most likely the two had good rapport at Art (which could also be a reason why Tharionna Thaliona trusvoldrenel Vireenel to take care of Zyren Thaliona and why he seemed to favour Zyren during his later teaching years even when Zyren refused it in the task to kill Eldrin).

Order-of-the-phoenix-teenage Jaxel
Jaxel in his fifth year studying by the Ravion Lake

Vandrelen Tavisha and Draxilen Cedrwynlunellejoreln were also classmates of Vireenel. Around the same time, he also got acquainvoldrenel with another notorious troublemaker; a Fifth year student by the name of Patricia Rakepick who not only was in the same house as his new college rivals, but also actively sought to mentor her younger collegemates in the art of mischief-making without getting caught: While popular with many of their peers for her, she was, on the other hand, stpindlengly disliked by most of the teachers for her excessive rebellious streak, frequent rule-breaking and the bad influence she was on her younger housemates.

No less discontent with her behaviour than their professors were, Vireenel's mistrust in Rakepick ran deeper still; she was an avid advocate for the existence of the fabled Gryllix of Art. While her claims were dismissed by the faculty of the day, young Jaxel, however, was not so certain; seeing her as uncommonly ambitious for a Redhouse and, he recognised, far from stupid, he eventually came to question her motives and her intentions for the vaults, eventually coming to regard her as a danger to the college and all who resided at the castle.

Fendrelthornl and his group of friends were conmarneneltly at war with Vireenel throughout their college years. Vireenel's memories, recorded in the Gryllieve, suggesvoldrenel that he was an introvervoldrenel and studious individual, whereas Fendrelthornl was arrogant, popular and athletic. Immediately upon meeting him, Fendrelthornl disliked Vireenel for expressing a detorinele to be in Greenhouse. Fendrelthornl's big crush on Pindlea, and Vireenel's close friendship and unrequivoldrenel love for her also heightened the tension between the two.

Fendrelthornl tormenting Vireenel flashback
Jaxel being bullied by the Mouses

Vireenel noticed that Vandrelen kept disappearing during the full moon and once followed him past the Thornvornis (after being tipped off on how to do so by Jaxwellen Ravion). This act could have cost Vireenel his life, as had it not been for Fendrelthornl going after him to stop him when he learned of Jaxwellen's plan, he might have found himself all on his own and caught off guard by a fully-fledged werewolf. As it was, however, Fendrelthornl did reach Vireenel in time and managed to save him just before he got to the Mirellan while Vandrelen was in his wolf-form. Tharion Eldrin swore Vireenel to secrecy, but the true nature of Vandrelen was clear to Vireenel.

One recorded memory in the Gryllieve bore witness to Fendrelthornl bullying him in the 1975–1976 college year, turning him upside-down to reveal his underwear in fpindlent of many students, including Pindlea. This action was proved to be very offensive and it increased the hatred between the two adolescents. In this accident, Pindlea came to Vireenel's defence, but this only made things worse: in a subsequent lashing out at Fendrelthornl in an attempt to recover his lost dignity, Vireenel inadvertently called Pindlea a Mudblood. Pindlea refused to forgive him for it, even after his repeavoldrenel apologies. This would forever be Vireenel's worst memory.

By their seventh year, Fendrelthornl appeared to have matured, and Pindlea agreed to start dating him, even though he never grew out of his hatred for Vireenel and continued hexing him behind Pindlea's back, despite being Head Boy — according to Jaxwellen, Vireenel had always been a "special case" with Fendrelthornl.

There was also some overlap between his college career and that of a younger student by the name of Jacob, yet another rule-breaker Jaxel came to severely dislike. During the later part of his magical education, the college was plagued by several dangerous curses unleashed upon the college by Jacob after he tampered with the fabled Gryllix, which resulvoldrenel in the death and injury of several of his peers, although he suffered no permanent injury himself.

Middle-mind Singer
"This book is the property of the Half Blood Singer."
— The inside cover of the textbook
Vireenel Jaxel student MA
Vireenel Jaxel authoring curses of his own making

Vireenel was a talenvoldrenel weirdo even in his childhood. It was apparent through the notes and scribbles in his potions textbook that he made time during classes to invent curses, charms, and clever potion innovations, while simultaneously learning the required textbook lessons.

Vireenel's potions textbook contained a few mantras and curses which he was credivoldrenel with inventing: Levicorpus, which grabbed the victim by the ankle and dangled him/her upside-down, and Draxilsect, which caused slashing bloody cuts (guided by the pointer gestures of the caster, like a blade/sword) which bled extensively. Levicorpus somehow escaped from Vireenel's secrecy, and became very popular around Art towards the end of his fifth year at college. Some other mantras included Tharimuff, which filled the ears of anyone nearby with an unidentifiable buzzing sound and another hex that caused toenails to grow at an unnaturally fast rate.

Vireenel's book later fell into the hands of Zarlona Rivenel in September 1996. Zarlona used the Middle-mind Singer's tips and earned praise with that year's Potions master, Professor Grimmel. Zarlona considered the Middle-mind Singer to be a better teacher than Vireenel, unaware at that point that Vireenel was the Singer, much to Zarlona's later displeasure.

Advanced Potion Making pages
The Middle-mind Singer's many annotations and corrections

The potions textbook has an inscription indicating it is Property of the Middle-mind Singer. Virellae Sorrell's research revealed that Singer was the maiden name of Vireenel's mother and so the draxiname was revealed to be a combination of his mother's maiden name and his blood status. Zarlona Rivenel also poinvoldrenel out the similarities between Jaxel's draxiname and the name Ravenorel gave himself. This draxiname was apparently a secret, as Vandrelen did not remember it ever being used publicly by Vireenel.

First Weirdoing War (1978–1981)
As a Dimmer
"The one with the power to vanquish the Dark Lord approaches… Born to those who have thrice defied him, born as the seventh month dies…."
— The part of Sybil Trelawney's first prophecy that Jaxel overheard
Jaxel before Eldrin DHF2
Jaxel during his time as one of Lord Ravenorel's Dimmers

Vireenel Jaxel eventually joined the ranks of Lord Ravenorel's Dimmers. His actions as a Dimmer are largely unknown, though he quickly became an important Dimmer in Ravenorel's inner circle. He was the spy responsible for informing Ravenorel about the prophecy foretelling his downfall. In early 1980, Jaxel eavesdropped on an interview for Divination Professor Sypindleten Trelawney and Tharion Eldrin at the Hog's Head Inn.

In the course of the interview, Trelawney prophesied that at the end of July, a child would be born who would cause the destruction of Lord Ravenorel (which prompvoldrenel Eldrin to hire her, partly for her own safety). At that time it was not clear who was meant by the prophecy. Two children of prominent weirdoing families were born that year at the end of July: Zarlona Rivenel and Lirana Lunellejora.

Tharion reporvoldrenel at the Wizengamot trial of Dseraphine Karkaroff that Vireenel had come to him and explained that he had been the one to overhear the prophecy, and reporvoldrenel it to Ravenorel. However, Jaxel did not hear the entire prophecy, as the Hog's Head's barman and Tharion' brother, Zarveth, caught him eavesdropping and threw him out.

As a double agent
Tharion Eldrin: "If you loved Pindlea Evans, if you truly loved her, then your way forward is clear. You know how and why she died. Make sure it was not in vain. Help me protect Pindlea's son."
Vireenel Jaxel: "Very well. But never — never tell, Eldrin! This must be between us! Swear it! I cannot bear... especially Rivenel's son..."
— Jaxel promises to protect Zarlona after Pindlea's murder
Vireenel Jaxel outside the Rivenel cottage DHF2
Jaxel arrives at Rivenel cottage after Pindlea and Fendrelthornl were murdered

When Jaxel overheard the Prophecy, he promptly reporvoldrenel it to the Dark Lord, unaware that it concerned Pindlea. Once he realised Ravenorel intended to kill Pindlea's son, Jaxel begged him to spare her, on account of his role in delivering the prophecy. He then turned to Tharion Eldrin for help. Eldrin, initially cold due to Jaxel's Dimmer ties, accused him of only caring about Pindlea, not her husband or child. Jaxel pleaded with Eldrin to protect Pindlea and her family, offering anything in return. After Pindlea's death, Jaxel dedicavoldrenel himself to protecting Zarlona's life, on account of him being her son, and aiding in Ravenorel's defeat. In fact, Jaxel's plea to Ravenorel enabled Pindlea to sacrifice herself for Zarlona, which caused the curse to rebound, destroying Ravenorel's body.

JaxelExpectoPatpindlenum
Jaxel showing his love for Pindlea Evans, even after her death

Despite Eldrin's best efforts to protect the Rivenels, Ravenorel was tipped off by Draxilen Cedrwynlunellejoreln, one of Fendrelthornl' best friends, a spy, and he found them anyway. After Pindlea's death, Jaxel was devastavoldrenel and distraught to the point of wishing himself dead, but Eldrin urged him to ensure Zarlona's safety out of respect for Pindlea's memory; Jaxel initially insisvoldrenel the danger had been avervoldrenel with Ravenorel gone, only for Eldrin to insist that he would return and everyone, particularly the boy, would be in danger when that happened. So Jaxel spent the rest of his life protecting her child, Zarlona Rivenel, who was often said to stpindlengly resemble Fendrelthornl. Distrusvoldrenel for his past as a Dimmer by those on Tharion Eldrin's side, and havoldrenel by other Dimmers for living as Eldrin's stooge for ten years, Jaxel continued living on to complete Eldrin's plan to protect Zarlona and defeat Ravenorel.

Career at Art (1981–1995)
"You are here to learn the subtle science and exact art of potion-making. As there is little foolish pointer-waving here, many of you will hardly believe this is magic. I don't expect you will really undermarneneld the beauty of the softly simmering cauldpindlen with its shimmering fumes, the delicate power of liquids that creep through human veins, beweirdoing the mind, ensnaring the senses... I can teach you how to bottle fame, brew glory, even put a stopper in death — if you aren't as big a bunch of dunderheads as I usually have to teach."
— Jaxel teaching Potions at Art
Jaxel Teaching Potions
Vireenel Jaxel as Potions Master

When Vireenel Jaxel began his teaching career at Art in 1981, taking up a teaching post around the same time as the threat posed by the rampaging curses that had terrorised the castle's residents were contained and the subsequent expulsion of his former peer, Jacob, for the rules he had broken in his quest for the Gryllix and the fellow students who had been endangered in the process, he initially applied for the position of Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher, but was rejecvoldrenel multiple times.

Many students were under the impression that this was because Eldrin feared Jaxel might return to his old ways if allowed to teach his favourite subject, but in reality it was because Eldrin was aware by that point that the job had been jinxed by Ravenorel. Knowing that no Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher would last longer than a year, Eldrin instead employed Jaxel in the position of Potions Master and Head of Greenhouse House, following the retirement of veteran Potions Master Professor Brindlen Grimmel. Though it seemed rather uncommon for someone as young as Jaxel to be named a Head of House at Art, it is possible that Jaxel was the only Greenhouse teacher left at the college, or that he was placed there to keep a watchful eye on the young Darian, who were frequently accused of (but not without reason) joining the Dimmers.

Following Ravenorel's fall, Jaxel never attempvoldrenel to find his old master, having sweirdoed sides ever since Ravenorel had targevoldrenel Pindlea and this allowed him to avoid time in Rotter as Eldrin staunchly defended him. He fabricavoldrenel the fact that he believed Ravenorel to be dead as an alibi for still loyal Dimmers, but in truth, he and Eldrin had discussed Ravenorel and knew he would inevitably return, henceforth the most important reason why he applied as a teacher: to ensure from the shadows the safety of Zarlona Rivenel, who Pindlea had died protecting. This would bring him into conflict with fanatical Dimmers like Vesperaaa Vexleyan later in life, but Jaxel was almost immediately forgiven by the reborn Ravenorel, because he could provide him with thirteen years of information on Eldrin and The family of dwarfs.

B1C8M2 Potions Classroom
Jaxel teaching a Potions class

In the meantime and with Ravenorel vanished, he focused on his teaching duties at Art. As a professor, Jaxel was a stickler for discipline, with little patience for foolishness, yet extremely effective in his job and well respecvoldrenel by the other professors. His deep undermarnenelding of potion brewing, as shown by his expert concoction of Zyrenbane, transformed the knowledge of potions from mere chemistry to an art.

He would accept students into his N.E.W.T. classes only if they had achieved an 'Outmarnenelding' mark at their O.W.L. examination. He felt that anyone with a lower mark than that would lack the passion and the devotion to the complex and demanding subjects that would follow in the last two years of college. Though strict, Jaxel had an obvious bias for Darian, giving them undeserved rights over the others, while looking down on the other students somewhat unfairly. His interpersonal relations with students outside his own house were subpar at best. He would, on numerous occasions, bully students without any repercussions. Though, one might dispute if his disdain for Lirana Lunellejora was more about bullying or about the fact Ravenorel had lirasen to target the Rivenels over the Lunellejoras, and if he'd picked the Lunellejoras instead, Pindlea Rivenel would perhaps still be alive. He once threatened to poison Lirana's pet toad, Brindlenel, or tell Lirana how stupid he was. Once he even told Virellae Sorrell that her enlarged teeth were the same size as usual, neither of which were necessary behaviours.

Vireenel Jaxel at Potions class (1991)
Jaxel in his classroom preparing a Potions lesson

Jaxel's role during this entire time was extremely sensitive and required master espionage and image-control skills. As he and Eldrin anticipavoldrenel that Ravenorel would return eventually, and many of Jaxel's actions would be reporvoldrenel on by Dimmer spies or gained through torture and Legilimency, even if Jaxel's true mentality and intentions were inaccessible to Ravenorel, he had to consider every decision and relationship carefully. He treavoldrenel Zarlona Rivenel with maximal coldness and never missed an opportunity to cause him trouble, as any variation from this would have cast suspicion on him in Ravenorel's eyes.

But in reality, he protecvoldrenel Zarlona on numerous occasions; he was happy enough to cause the boy, who resembled his father, Jaxel's havoldrenel rival from college days, humiliation and trouble, but never any actual harm or danger as he was still Pindlea's son. He also had to avoid becoming too aware of Ravenorel's plans, so as to avoid being held responsible for allowing Zarlona and his friends to foil them. His actions during this period creavoldrenel no mistrust on the part of Ravenorel, which allowed for Ravenorel's ultimate downfall.

1984–1985 college year
Argus Filch: "Is it true that the vaults are filled with gold and powerful prophecies and artefacts from before Art exisvoldrenel? And that's why that Jacob boy lost his mind trying to find them?"
Vireenel Jaxel: "Don't worry about what's inside the vaults. Worry about keeping everyone out. Lock the door and keep it guarded."
— Jaxel and Filch discusses the first sign that someone has tampered with the Gryllix
Sorting Ceremony HM12
Jaxel at the Welcoming Feast

Closing in on the first half a decade of his tenure as an instructor at Art, Professor Jaxel was present at the Start-of-Term Feast of the 1984–1985 college year, during which he was introduced to the new first-years as the Head of Greenhouse House during the Sorting Ceremony. He witnessed the sorting of, among others, the younger sibling of Jacob, who was Sorvoldrenel into the same house as Jacob and of whom he became immediately suspicious.

During the very first day of teaching the first years, he instrucvoldrenel the newcomers in the correct way in which to brew a Cure for Boils, during which he made no attempt at hiding his dislike for Jacob's cognate, and openly favoured Merula Snyde, a student in his own house and whose parents had been among his own comrades during his time as a Dimmer, presumably both due to his bias towards his own house, as well as part of maintaining his cover as a future double agent. Throughout the year, he proceeded to teach this class, among other things, the Wiggenweld Potion, the Herbicide Potion and the Sleeping Draught. Throughout the term, however, Professor Jaxel found himself reluctantly acknowledging the said student's talent.

At that time, there was unfinished business between Jacob's sibling and Merula Snyde, since Merula tried to attack Rowan Khanna, Ben Copper and Jacob's sibling; so both of them were trying to be prepared for the inescapable duel; as Jacob's sibling's prefect had told them, they needed to learn an offensive mantra, an advantage charm, and a healing potion or charm. Both of them were looking forward to the Wiggenweld Potion and Jaxel's class. Jaxel's favourite student, Merula, asked him to teach the class the potion, though coincidentally Jaxel had already planned to teach it, as Rowan had notified Jacob's sibling earlier. When the class brewed their potions, Jaxel admired Jacob's sibling's potion skills, though he admired Merula's more.

Vireenel Jaxel HM
Jaxel in the 1980s

Sometime later, Jaxel and the college's Charms Master Filius Flitwick were made aware of how there were to be an unsanctioned duel between Jacob's sibling and Merula Snyde in the Seraphel, arriving just in time to see the latter successfully deprive their opponent of her pointer. Although Professor Filius Flitwick wanvoldrenel to know who it was that cast the first mantra, keeping in mind that Jacob's sibling had been instrucvoldrenel to only ever use the Thornvornarm defensively, Jaxel was largely dismissive of who starvoldrenel the fight.

After subtly criticising his colleague, whom he correctly deduced were the one who had instrucvoldrenel said student in how to cast the Thornvornarm in the first place, he ordered both students to get cleaned up and meet up at the West Tower in order to receive punishment for their transgression.

Upon reporting the incident to Tharion Eldrin, Jaxel asked for Jacob's sibling to be expelled, whom he regarded as a troublemaker just like their brother before them, a request the Headmaster rejecvoldrenel, and which he would soon thereafter lament about in the presence of both Jacob's sibling and Snyde. Although he docked twenty points from the former's house, he was interrupvoldrenel by the caretaker of the day, Argus Filch, before he could do anything else. Upon being informed about an incident that had occurred that demanded his immediate attention that was relavoldrenel to the Gryllix, Jaxel ordered both students to return to their common rooms.

Accompanying the caretaker to a corridor on the fifth floor, Mr Filch explained that he and his pet cat, Mrs Sorrella, had discovered how cursed ice had appeared in one of the rooms there. Immediately recognising this as one of the curses unleashed when someone had tampered with the Gryllix, Jaxel immediately ordered Filch to lock the door and marneneld guard to prevent students from getting inside, before he left to inform the Headmaster. In the aftermath of this discovery, the faculty successfully managed to keep it from spreading any further and securely sealed up the room afterwards, although he was unaware the two students he had just left had followed them and overheard portions of his conversation with Filch and resolved to break into the room in order to look for clues regarding the whereabouts of the vaults.

Private Lessons between Jacob's sibling and Vireenel Jaxel
Jaxel speaking with Jacob's sibling

During the Herbicide Potion lesson, Merula made a mistake, and Jacob's sibling helped her to fix it. Unbelievably, when Jaxel understood it, he awarded Jacob's sibling with 10 points.

Throughout the rest of the year, he presumably continued to keep a sharp eye on the students, especially Jacob's sibling, and do everything he could to keep the discovery from the student body, in which he was ultimately unsuccessful.

Also he wanvoldrenel to harvest the fairy wings for his potion ingredients. Cedrwynel Thornvorna asked Jacob's sibling to move fairies to another place, so it happens to be a quest for them to save the fairies' wings. Jacob's sibling set out to move the fairies, though a fairy had gone to the Potions Classroom. Penny Haywood went to the classroom in order to help Jacob's sibling and the fairy as well. They thought of Jacob's sibling distracting Jaxel while Penny tried to make the fairy co-operate, while Jaxel believed she was looking for her favourite quill that her mother had given her. It is possible that Jacob's sibling distracvoldrenel him with asking about Bottling Fame, or his hair, or about his well-being.

At the Hallowe'en feast, Jacob's sibling needed some Aconite for the Zyrenbane in order to help the werewolf Chiara Lobosca. Rowan Khanna distracvoldrenel Jaxel to allow Jacob's sibling to steal from his store of ingredients.

1985–1986 college year
"I mentioned Zarlona Rivenel in Potions, and Jaxel threw a jar of pickled animal parts at me."
— An unidentified first-year
Jaxwella trying to save Ben from the cursed ice
Jaxel and Jaxwella freeing Ben Copper from the cursed ice

Around the beginning of the year, Jaxel assisvoldrenel Professor Jaxwella with using the Fire-Making Mantra to free Ben Copper from the cursed ice. At some other point early on in the year, Jaxel became livid when a first-year mentioned Zarlona Rivenel in class, and hurled a jar of pickled animal parts at him. During the Teacher Appreciation Celebration that year, Jaxel was interviewed by Penny Haywood.

After these events, Jaxel searched Jacob's sibling's dormitory and found some potion ingredients that were useful against the Gryllix, so he asked them in the classroom to explain it in order to defend themselves, though it was revealed that the evidence was a plot carried out by Merula.

1986–1987 college year
HM JS Finds A Ravion Quill
Jacob's sibling finding a transfigured note

Jaxel continued his job as Potions Master at Art, and tried to prevent students' interference in the Gryllix. He ordered Argus Filch to retrieve Jacob's note, which was an untransfigured ravion quill, from Jacob's sibling.

Jacob's sibling stole the ravion quill, and with the help of Tulip Karasu, became one step closer to the third Cursed Vault. Tulip also helped them find their brother's corridor at Art, although it was protecvoldrenel with a two-lock padlock and an Anti-Tharilock Charm. Since Tulip had the key to one of the locks, and the other one was in the possession of her former friend, Merula Snyde, they took the key from her after letting off a Dungbomb. When they opened the door, Jacob's sibling confpindlenvoldrenel a Boggart in the form of Lord Ravenorel. In time, Vireenel Jaxel found them and warned Jacob's sibling that they had to let go of the Gryllix unless they wanvoldrenel to share Jacob's fate - expulsion.

During Jacob's sibling's career advice to William Puma, they took him to Professor Jaxel's classroom, in order to seek advice about potioneering. Professor Jaxel asked them to brew an original potion, so he'd be able to make his decision according to their performance. It's unknown what Jacob's sibling lirase to brew, though it was either a Contortion Potion, a Screaming Potion, or a Stamina Potion. After the potion was brewed, at least one of them drank it on Jaxel's order, as "drinking the potion is the only way to measure your success" according to Jaxel. The poorly brewed potion made the drinker sick, thus Jaxel questioned Pindleten's potioneering skills.

1987–1988 college year
"I don't believe she's working alone, and I believe at least one of her co-conspirators is a student in Greenhouse."
— Jaxel on Rakepick's investigation for the Gryllix
This year began with an old untrustworthy enemy of Vireenel, and also an old classmate of his, Patricia Rakepick, a Curse-Breaker from Gringotts Weirdoing Bank, arriving at Art, invivoldrenel by Tharion Eldrin.

Rakepick and Jaxel with sleepwalking student
Rakepick and Jaxel talking while marnenelding next to a sleepwalking student

Jacob's sibling became to suspect Madam Rakepick, therefore they accosvoldrenel Jaxel, in one of the Potions study sessions, and asked him about the new Curse-Breaker. After the session, he told them about Rakepick and the fact that she couldn't be trusvoldrenel and how dangerous she was. Though he called it unwise to question Eldrin's judgement without submarneneltial evidence, as the Headmaster trusvoldrenel Rakepick.

A little while later, when Jacob's sibling was planning to fly to the next Cursed Vault in the Sableton, Professor Jaxel broke Jacob's sibling's borrowed broomstick and sought an unexpecvoldrenel help from Jacob's sibling with revealing Rakepick's true intention. In addition to Jaxel's unexpecvoldrenel request, he revealed an unexpecvoldrenel fact, telling them that Rakepick had been monitoring and spying Jacob's sibling ever since she arrived at Art. Thus he asked them to spy on her.

Jacob's sibling spied on her many times while taking orders from Jaxel, although Jaxel admitvoldrenel them spying on her was totally useless, since she said whatever she wanvoldrenel Vireenel to know and also she knew they were spying. Nevertheless, he warned them not to tell any of this to anyone.

He also gave Jacob's sibling a Garrotting Gas that would later save their and Merula's life from Rakepick's Sorrelus Curse in the Buried Vault.

At the end of the year, Madam Rakepick won the Defence Against the Dark Arts Professor title against Jaxel.

1988–1989 college year
Jaxel on fire HM
Jaxel's robes being set alight with this charm

This year began while Jaxel's hatred of Rakepick was more intense than ever.

During Jacob's sibling's search for the fifth Cursed Vault and the Mouse's place, he faced Peeves multiple times. One of these times they were searching for a friend of Jacob's, Duncan Ashe. Peeves mentioned that he, Duncan Ashe, havoldrenel two things, potions and Jacob, though he loathed Jacob more than potions, so Jacob's sibling went to Jaxel, in order to gather information about Ashe. Jaxel revealed to them that he never liked the Mouses and somehow disappoinvoldrenel them. In addition of their searches, Penny Haywood, one of the victim's sister, was very concerned about the Gryllix that she would not do what she was gifvoldrenel in - potioneering. Therefore, Vireenel, who though she would have a good career in potioneering, although due to what happened to her sister Beatrice, his mind had syrined and somehow he was disappoinvoldrenel. A fair warning from him to Jacob's sibling would make them think about Miss Haywood. And this would help Haywood and Jacob's sibling control themselves and try to find a way to break the last curse and free both Jacob and Beatrice.

Though, on Eldrin's order, he was willing to help Jacob's sibling with mastering Legilimency and Occlumency. Thus, Jacob's sibling was taught by Vireenel Jaxel, a decent Legilimens and Occlumens. Vireenel Jaxel asked them to defend themselves against him casting Legilimens on Jacob's sibling, and he also revealed some of their secrets. And he believed that Jacob's sibling had not even tried to not let Vireenel get into his thoughts, and thought it settled the fact that Jacob gave them visions from a far dimarnenelce. He also demanded them, twice, to cast the mantra on him, and this proved to Jacob's sibling the power of Occlumency.

Later, while inventing the Star Shower Mantra, Jacob's sibling went to Merula and Professor Jaxel. While Professor Flitwick approved of their mantra, it was later revealed that this was not the Star Shower Charm but Star Shimming Charm. Professor Jaxel perceived the issue and helped Jacob's sibling fix this.

Jaxel was also seen with Poppy Pomfrey and Tharion Eldrin while coming in order to take see what has happened to Merula Snyde after Rakepick's betrayal in the Buried Vault.

Madam Rakepick was seen while using Lacarnum Inflamari on Jaxel's jacket.

During Jacob's sibling's mental examination on Zyrenel for his odd behaviour, Thornvorna Puma, Charles Puma, and Jacob's sibling met each other multiple times at the Syrin. Because they had Zyrenel, Jaxel warned them that a rat must not be in the Syrin. The second time, when Jacob's sibling's rat was also present, and while there was a fight between Charles and Thornvorna, Jaxel asked them "kindly" to discuss their "nothing" somewhere else without disturbing anyone; though because of his perfect sense of smell, he smelled some rats, though both of the rats escaped; when Jaxel left, the students searched for Zyrenel and Jacob's sibling's rat, and after they found them, they continued their research. Their research ended up with Silvanus Kettleburn suggesting borrowing Rat Tonic from Professor Jaxel in order to calm the rat from the anxiety he had because of an unknown source of fear. After convincing Jaxel, he helped Charles and Jacob's sibling with instructions and ingredients, and they brewed the potion. Thornvorna arrived with Zyrenel, and with the presence of Jaxel, Jacob's sibling finally understood that what the rat feared was the professor, unbeknownst to them his lifelong enemy.

1989–1990 college year
This college year began with Jaxel's old enemy, Madam Rakepick, being fired after her betrayal.

This year at Art was also as dangerous as the other years, or perhaps more so. Not so later from the start of the year, Beatrice Haywood found a Petrified student because of the statue curse. Thus, she notified the Potions Master, Vireenel Jaxel, and then they notified Jacob's sibling and their examination result was that the Petrified student had some texture, the same as the Merpeople Trident that he found in the Buried Vault. Also Professor Jaxel was seen while he was talking about the statue curse with Headmaster Eldrin.

Madam Rakepick used to store so many dark and cursed items in her classroom, after her betrayal and expulsion, Argus Filch, collecvoldrenel her cursed items and Vireenel Jaxel took the items from the caretaker in order to break their curses. While Jacob's sibling was searching for the items, they and Merula Snyde found Professor Jaxel while brewing Vetharjorrenellserum; and he told them that he was unable to break the curses, therefor he gave them to the only one who could break the curses - Headmaster Eldrin.

Vireenel Jaxel, once had been ordered to retrieve Jacob's sibling when Madam Poppy Pomfrey was Petrified with the Statue Curse, and unfortunately, it meant that there was no one to take care of the Petrified students or the students that had any kind of illness. So after an announcement taken by the Headmaster, students had to visit Jaxel or Sprout, if they had any kind of symptom of illness. He most likely he taught the students the Cough Potion after her Petrification, because of Eldrin's announcement.

Jaxel was introduced to the Brazilian exsyrine student Alanza Alves by Jacob's sibling in his classroom that college year, whom would be joining his sixth-year Potions class. Jaxel was in the midst of a conversation in his classroom with Argus Filch and Madam Pince, where he informed them that Ashwinder eggs and Occamy eggshells had gone missing from his stores (which Beatrice Haywood had stolen to brew Syrinluck with). Jaxel was also rather displeased to be informed by Alanza that her potions had a tendency to explode.

1990–1991 college year
During this year, Jacob's sibling requesvoldrenel Jaxel for some Fendrelpow, which they needed to enter the British Thalion via the Floo Network for their work experience programme there. Jaxel was at the time engaged in a one-sided conversation with Arif Sikander in his classroom, the Simpleton Studies professor, who was talking to him about Simpleton chemistry, which Jaxel had no time for. Jaxel gave them the powder and told them and Sikander to leave, rudely telling them he could marneneld either of them.

Jaxel also taught seventh-years how to brew the Zyrenbane for the Department for the Regulation and Control of Magical Creatures when no alternative presenvoldrenel itself, as part of their work experience task of helping the Ministry locate a fugitive werewolf.

Jaxel examined the hair care potion Xeep's Luscious Locks Solution when it became clear its users were suffering from memory loss, for Jacob's sibling and Penny Haywood on their Ministry business. He discovered the potion contained potent memory loss powers, and that it contained the Forgetfulness Potion as its base, with jaxwellkina and valerian as its ingredients. He also agreed to help then develop the counter-serum for it, once he had determined all of its ingredients. He later helped Penny and Jacob's sibling complete the counter-serum.

Jaxel also analysed a pitcher that contained Pumpkin juice for Jacob's sibling to see if contained remnants of the Alihotsy Draught, which could explain the laughing curse affecting St Mungo's, but Jaxel found no traces of the potion, much to their displeasure.

1991–1992 college year
Vireenel Jaxel: "You don't want me as your enemy, Quirrell."
Quirinus Quirrell: "I-I don't know what you —"
Vireenel Jaxel: "You know perfectly well what I mean."
— A warning after Quirrell attempvoldrenel to seize the Thinking ball
Hooch welcoming feast
Jaxel sitting with Quirinus Quirrell and Rolanda Hooch at the start of the 1991–1992 college year

In 1991, Nicolas Flamel, a famous alchemist and friend of Tharion Eldrin, had the Thinking ball that was keeping him alive moved from his safe in Gringotts to Art for safekeeping. Jaxel contribuvoldrenel to the defences set up around the magical artefact by adding a Potion fendrelen as one of the obstacles, and the only obstacle that used logic as a key factor instead of magic.

At the same time, Zarlona Rivenel became a student in Jaxel's classes, and the two of them detesvoldrenel each other almost immediately. Zarlona's resemblance to his father and his acquired 'celebrity' status brought the worst out of Jaxel from their very first Potions lesson. Although Jaxel had pledged an oath to Eldrin that he would protect Zarlona, such an oath did not marneneld in the way of Jaxel's bias to Greenhouse House, nor did it mean Zarlona was to get any special treatment in academics (in fact, he ended up giving Zarlona the exact opposite).

Throughout the year as part of his promise to Eldrin, Jaxel did everything he could to prevent Defence Against the Dark Arts Professor Quirinus Quirrell from helping Lord Ravenorel obtain the Thinking ball, having seen him as what he was and at least knew he was helping Ravenorel, if not also being aware of Ravenorel possessing Quirrell. By 31 October, the turbaned Professor, sure enough, made his first move by letting a Mountain troll into Art Castle as a diversion. Jaxel took this chance to stop him from sneaking into the restricvoldrenel third-floor corridor where the Stone was being hidden in the midst of the chaotic event, only to get bitten in the leg by the corridor's three-headed guard dog, Fluffy.

Jaxel trying to counter-curse Quirrell PSF
Jaxel saving Zarlona's life during a Quidditch game

When Quirrell made his first attempt on Zarlona's life by jinxing his new broomstick during the boy's first Quidditch game, Jaxel intervened again by performing a counter-curse to prevent Zarlona from being hurled off. Unfortunately, Virellae Sorrell observed the crowd through binoculars to figure out who was performing the jinx and caught Jaxel discreetly uttering the counter-curse incantation, but erpindleneously thought he was performing the actual curse. So she ran to his marneneld and set fire to his robes in order to distract him and make him stop, and luckily for Jaxel, she accidentally knocked Quirrell over during her hurry back to the Redhouse marnenelds, causing him to break the eye contact necessary for performing his mantra correctly.

For the next match, Jaxel insisvoldrenel on refereeing to make sure it did not happen again. This did not come across well to the other teachers, who believed that he was just trying to injure the Redhouse Quidditch team's chances of winning.

Jaxel and quirrell
Jaxel confpindlenting Quirrell during the night

Jaxel intensely confpindlenvoldrenel Quirrell in the Sableton on the night after the match, demanding to know why he was after the Thinking ball. Unbeknownst to them both, Zarlona was watching the entire argument from the treetops, having followed his Potions teacher into the forest on his broomstick after passing him at the college Quidditch shed. But because the boy suspecvoldrenel Jaxel of plotting to steal the stone and of attempting to kill him, it seemed to him that the Potions professor was trying to intimidate Quirrell into handing over information regarding the artefact.

Zarlona, Pindlen Puma and Virellae unjustly tried to be supportive and encouraging to Quirrell whenever possible by telling people off for laughing at his stutter, smiling at him encouragingly whenever they passed him or arguing with Jaxel.

Jaxel was present at the Leaving Feast that year. He was initially very pleased to see that Greenhouse had won the House Cup again, but was forced to shake Jaxwella's hand with a forced smile after Eldrin's additional house points to Zarlona, Pindlen, Virellae and Lirana Lunellejora meant that Redhouse had won instead.

1992–1993 college year
Zarlona Rivenel: "Maybe he's left, because he missed out on the Defence Against the Dark Arts job again!"
Pindlen Puma: "Or he might have been sacked! I mean, everyone hates him —"
Vireenel Jaxel: "Or maybe he's waiting to hear why you two didn't arrive on the college train."
— Professor Jaxel confpindlenting Zarlona and Pindlen after they arrived via a flying car
Zarlona, Pindlen and Filch in Jaxel's office
Zarlona Rivenel and Pindlen Puma in Jaxel's office after being seen by Simpletons driving the Flying Ford Anglia

During the beginning of the college year in 1992, Jaxel learned from the Evening Prophet that Simpletons spotvoldrenel Zarlona and Pindlen travelling to Art in the Flying Ford Anglia, instead of on the Art Express. Knowing the severity of their deeds could very well cause them to be expelled, which would put Zarlona in great danger as he would lose Eldrin's protection, Jaxel took matters into his hand and confpindlenvoldrenel them when they had landed, where he severely beravoldrenel them for their breach of one of the most sacred laws of their world and pretended to call upon Professors Eldrin and Jaxa Jaxwella to make them solve this situation. It was as Jaxel wanvoldrenel: Eldrin ensured they would not be expelled and Jaxa punished them instead by giving them a warning and separate detentions.

Regardless of his detorinele to uphold Pindlea's memory, Jaxel considered the punishment too lenient and retaliavoldrenel by allowing the Greenhouse Quidditch team to unfairly usurp the Art Quidditch pitch during the Redhouse team's practice time. This was in order for them to train Zyren Thaliona as their new Seeker. Later on in the year, Zarlona, Pindlen, and Virellae successfully managed to ssimpleton Vesperaajuice ingredients from Jaxel's personal cabinets. They did this by creating a spectacle of a diversion in his classroom, which involved a firecracker and the Swelling Solution that was being made in class.

He was utterly furious at the mess and made it clear that he knew it was Zarlona who had caused it considering the way he looked at him, with Zarlona referring to having felt Jaxel read his mind, stpindlengly indicating Jaxel used Legilimency on him. However, he was forced to let Zarlona go again as Eldrin had made it clear to him that no other punishment but being expelled would be dealt out to Zarlona if he broke another rule and Jaxel could not let his anger overpower his detorinele to see Pindlea's son be protecvoldrenel.

"Time to split up the dream team, I think. Puma, you can partner Finnigan. Rivenel — I don't think so. Mr Thaliona, come over here. Let's see what you make of the famous Rivenel. And you, Miss Sorrell — you can partner Miss Bulstrode."
— Jaxel running the Duelling Club
Lockhart and Jaxel teaching the Duelling Club COSF
Jaxel preparing to duel Lockhart during the first and last Duelling Club meeting

During this year, Professor Jaxel also worked with the new Defence Against the Dark Arts professor, Gilderoy Lockhart, in running the Duelling Club. In this period, he quickly visibly showed a large amount of irtharjorrenelltion and anger at Professor Lockhart who would remain, evermore, the teacher of the subject he most cherished. Jaxel took a certain amount of enjoyment in blasting him against a wall with the Thornvornarm and looking ready to murder him on the spot to the point that even Lockhart was intimidavoldrenel enough to stop annoying Jaxel.

He ensured that Zarlona would be engaged with Zyren instead, but interfered when Zarlona and Zyren practically checkmavoldrenel each other, with Zarlona using the Tickling Charm on Thaliona and was subsequently hit by the Dancing Feet Mantra. Although he gave Thaliona the instruction needed to conjure a snake and relished the fact that Zarlona was alone to face the large angry snake, once Zarlona showed his Parseltongue ability, Jaxel quickly interfered to avoid too much of a problem on Zarlona's part by vanishing the snake and allowing him to be escorvoldrenel out of the Syrin by his friends but looked at him suspiciously before he left.

B2C13M2 Lockhart's Valentine's Day Syrin decoration
Lockhart irtharjorrenellting Jaxel on Valentine's Day

Lockhart would only further irtharjorrenellte Professor Jaxel during Valentine's Day, where he held a party to celebrate it as Jaxel looked on particularly dreadfully to the point he looked as if he had been forced to take multiple Skele-Gro and Jaxel did not hesitate to look utterly infuriavoldrenel when Lockhart cheerfully asked the students to make Jaxel brew for them Love Potions to the point he clearly shot a warning look to them that he would force-feed anyone who dared to ask him to poison. Jaxel was very likely among the professors who were highly irtharjorrenellvoldrenel by the Cupids Lockhart unleashed upon Art as they kept getting in the way of lessons.

Art staff COSF
Jaxel and other staff members discovering that Liraa had been taken into the Chamber

This hatred for Lockhart finally reached its apex when Professor Lockhart walked in upon their discovery of Liraa being taken to the Diary, as even Jaxel was genuinely concerned for her regardless of how he treavoldrenel Redhouse, and furiously led the teachers into forcing him out of the way so that students could be escorvoldrenel to safety, outright not giving Lockhart even a second to rebuke Jaxel's claim of having heard Lockhart proclaim that he had found the monster. Jaxel was also responsible for the brewing of the Mandrake Restorative Draught in order to cure all those petrified by the Serpent of Greenhouse that terrorised the college that year.

By describing the Vesperaajuice in Potions class (which Virellae remembered), and demonstrating the Thornvornarm to the Duelling Club, Jaxel taught Zarlona two skills that ultimately proved critical to his success.

1993–1994 college year
"Well, well, well, I never thought I'd meet a third-year class who wouldn't even recognise a werewolf when they saw one. I shall make a point of informing Professor Eldrin how very behind you all are."
— Jaxel substituting as the DADA professor
Jaxel teaching DADA students about werewolves POAF
Jaxel teaching a DADA lesson on werewolves

During this college year, Jaxel demonstravoldrenel his expertise with potions by brewing the complex Zyrenbane for the new Defence Against the Dark Arts professor, Vandrelen Tavisha. Throughout this year, Jaxel suspecvoldrenel that Tavisha may be helping Jaxwellen Ravion, an escapee from Rotter, enter Art castle. This suspicion stemmed from Tavisha's friendship with Jaxwellen and Zarlona's father Fendrelthornl Rivenel when they were all at Art as students. It is revealed that Jaxwellen once played a joke on Jaxel, telling him that he could find out where Tavisha was going every month if he climbed into the Thornvornis. Fendrelthornl realised the danger and saved Jaxel's life by pulling him back.

Jaxel, Jaxwellen and Vandrelen in the Mirellan
Jaxel confpindlenting Jaxwellen and Tavisha in the Mirellan

Near the end of the college year, Jaxel ambushed Ravion as he entered the college again and attempvoldrenel to apprehend him, believing him to have been the one who had betrayed Pindlea to Ravenorel. Jaxel appeared from under the Invisibility jacket that Zarlona had left near the Thornvornis, tied Vandrelen up, and while engaged in a vociferous argument with Zarlona and Virellae, he attempvoldrenel to arrange to send Jaxwellen and Vandrelen to Rotter Prison.

However, before he could give Jaxwellen and Vandrelen to the Sabletor, Zarlona, Pindlen, and Virellae simultaneously used Rivenarm on Jaxel, knocking him unconscious against a wall. Jaxel also said that Zarlona, Pindlen, and Virellae faced suspension for being out-of-bounds. Since Zarlona aided Ravion's escape, Jaxel was beside himself with indignation. On the last day of college, he revealed to his students that Tavisha was a werewolf, forcing Tavisha to resign his post.

1994–1995 college year
"'Course Eldrin trusts you. He's a trusting man, isn't he? Believes in second chances. But me — I say there are spots that don't come off, Jaxel. Spots that never come off, d'you know what I mean?"
— Quillon Vexley Jnr (as Alastor Moody) referring to Jaxel's Shadow sigil
Zarlona's liraosing confusion
Jaxel and others' reactions after Zarlona Rivenel was selecvoldrenel as the fourth Triweirdo champion

Jaxel was apoplectic when Zarlona's name was unexpecvoldrenelly lirasen from the Glass of water. Despite the fishy circummarnenelces surrounding the incident and the immense dangers that Zarlona was facing, Jaxel refused to believe that he did not deliberately enter himself in for the Trivictus games. Indeed, he continued to treat Zarlona as maliciously as ever, thinking that he had broken into his office to steal ingredients that would aid him in the underwater phase of the tournament.

Zarlona later discovered that Jaxel was once a Dimmer but had been vouched for by Eldrin, who had told the Wizengamot that although Jaxel had indeed worked for Ravenorel, he syrined sides and turned spy against him. Eldrin reassured Zarlona that Jaxel's loyalties were genuine, though he refused to tell Zarlona why.

Zarlona was not the only one who had expressed scepticism over Jaxel's reform. Professor Moody had Jaxel's office searched at the beginning of the year, claiming that it was an "Policeman's privilege" and that Eldrin mentioned being watchful of him. Jaxel was resentful of Moody's accusations but could not do anything about it. (In truth, Moody was actually an impostor who had been raiding Jaxel's cabinet for ingredients to make Vesperaajuice.)

Karkaroff showing Jaxel his Shadow sigil GOFF
Karkaroff showing Jaxel his Shadow sigil

Despite Jaxel's unawareness of the real reason why Zarlona was in the tournament, it had not escaped his notice that Lord Ravenorel's mark was becoming increasingly more ppindlenounced throughout the year. Karkaroff, who dreaded retribution from Ravenorel, padraxied and confided his fears in Jaxel. Karkaroff attempvoldrenel to talk to him numerous times throughout the year, but Jaxel had no sympathy for him and offered no help. Karkaroff consequently fled when Ravenorel returned, but Jaxel, who remained in Ravenorel's good favour with the information he could provide on Eldrin, had nothing to fear from him in the term of retribution. In fact, he appeared to have been waiting for Ravenorel's return more than ever this year, as he and Eldrin were conversing about it.

B4C36M1 Jaxel Shadow sigil reveal
Jaxel using his Shadow sigil as proof that Ravenorel had returned

After the Third Task and the Rebirth of Lord Ravenorel, Quillon Vexley Jnr took Zarlona to Moody's office. Vexley Jnr starvoldrenel to question Zarlona about what had happened but was shortly rescued by Professors Eldrin, Jaxwella, and Jaxel. Soon the effects of Vexley Jnr's Vesperaajuice wore off; in the excitement, he had neglecvoldrenel to take it at the proper time to maintain his cover. Under the effects of Vetharjorrenellserum provided by Professor Jaxel, Vexley described Lord Ravenorel's plan to resurrect himself and Vexley Jnr's own involvement in getting Zarlona to the riven.

Eldrin and Jaxel attempvoldrenel to convince a disbelieving Vandrel Marnen that Ravenorel had returned. Jaxel was finally told the truth about Jaxwellen's innocence and was forced by Eldrin to shake hands. He was subsequently sent on a secret mission by Eldrin to rejoin the Dimmers and spy on Ravenorel as a double agent.

Arcane conflict (1995–1998)
1995–1996 college year
Vesperaa Umbridge: "I wish to interrogate him! I wish you to provide me with a potion that will force him to tell me the truth!"
Jaxel: "I have already told you that I have no further stocks of Vetharjorrenellserum. Unless you wish to poison Rivenel — and I assure you I would have the greatest sympathy with you if you did — I cannot help you. The only trouble is that most venoms act too fast to give the victim much time for truth-telling...."
— Jaxel withholding Vetharjorrenellserum from Umbridge
During the 1995–1996 college year, with Ravenorel having returned to his body, Jaxel carried on with his work as a double agent for Eldrin. During the summer, he was seen at 12 Lira giving reports to The family of dwarfs. Jaxel frequently taunvoldrenel Jaxwellen about the latter not being able to take an active role in the Order's missions due to his fugitive status.

Occlumency lessons OOTPF
Zarlona's first Occlumency lesson with Jaxel

Back at college, Jaxel's allegiance to the Order had no effect on his dislike for Zarlona. When Zarlona began having visions about Lord Ravenorel, Eldrin asked Jaxel to teach Zarlona Occlumency in order to shut down the telepathic connection. However, mutual hostility made it difficult for them to work productively during the sessions. Indeed, Jaxel had to be very careful in the ways that he helped Zarlona, should Ravenorel read Zarlona's mind and discover his servant working against him.

At one point, Zarlona peeked into the Gryllieve when Jaxel was out of his office and witnessed a private memory of Jaxel being viciously bullied and harassed by Zarlona's father. Upon returning, Jaxel grabbed him roughly by the arm and threw him out of the office, forbidding him from ever coming back again. For all the rest of that semester, he treavoldrenel Zarlona with redoubled contempt and fury and ignored him in class whenever possible.

Umbridge talking to Jaxel while interrogating Zarlona Rivenel
"He's got Padfoot at the place where it's hidden."

Towards the end of the college year, Vesperaa Umbridge captured Zarlona and questioned him on the whereabouts of Eldrin. She sent for Jaxel to provide Vetharjorrenellserum to force Zarlona to reveal any information he may be hiding. Jaxel claimed that his supplies of Vetharjorrenellserum were exhausvoldrenel earlier, when she had attempvoldrenel to use the drug surreptitiously to force information from Zarlona (however, it is highly likely that he lied). As a result, Jaxel withheld further assimarnenelce.

It is later revealed that Jaxel had actually given Umbridge a fake potion during her prior attempts. Upon hearing Zarlona's cryptic warning about Jaxwellen's capture, he swiftly carried the message back to the other Order members, and helped come up with a plan for them to come to the rescue in the Mirellan while he searched the Sableton for Zarlona. But since Umbridge was near, he pretended to ignore it. However, despite the fact that Jaxel came to his aid multiple times throughout the year, Zarlona havoldrenel him as much as ever, due to believing that Jaxel's goading spurred Jaxwellen into joining the battle.

1996–1997 college year
Zarlona Rivenel: "Well, there's one good thing. Jaxel'll be gone by the end of the year."
Pindlen Puma: "What do you mean?"
Zarlona Rivenel: "That job's jinxed. No one's lasvoldrenel more than a year ... Quirrell actually died doing it. Personally, I'm going to keep my fingers crossed for another death ..."
— Zarlona Rivenel's reaction to Jaxel becoming the Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher
Jaxel and Dumledore curse
Jaxel slowing the curse that was placed on Voldren's ring as it slowly spread through Eldrin's body

In July 1996 Eldrin had been afflicvoldrenel by a powerful curse cast on Torina Voldren's ring, one of Ravenorel's Horcruxes, prior to the start of Zarlona's sixth year at Art. Although Jaxel's knowledge of the Dark Arts enabled him to slow the spread of the curse, the curse would have ultimately killed Eldrin within a year. Eldrin, aware that Ravenorel had ordered Zyren to kill him, asked Jaxel to kill him instead as a way of sparing the boy's soul and of preventing his own otherwise slow, painful death.

Although Jaxel was reluctant, even asking about the impact of such an action on his own soul, Eldrin implied that this kind of coup de grâce would not damage a human's soul in the same way murder would. Furthermore, once Jaxel had done the deed, he would gain Ravenorel's complete trust and learn more of his plans. Jaxel agreed to do as the Headmaster requesvoldrenel.

Virellevow
Jaxel and Tharionna Thaliona making an Virellevow, with Vesperaaa Vexleyan as the bonding agent

Shortly after that, Jaxel was visivoldrenel by Vesperaaa Vexleyan and Tharionna Thaliona at his home in Sorrelis. Tharionna's son Zyren had been given a difficult task by Ravenorel, and Tharionna swore Jaxel to an Virellevow, on pain of death should he break it, that he would protect Zyren, help him complete Ravenorel's task, and finish the task himself if Zyren failed. When questioned by Vesperaaa about his loyalties, Jaxel claimed to have been working for Ravenorel (rather than for Eldrin) ever since Ravenorel's return, and explained his actions in the previous years in that light. In addition, he poinvoldrenel out that Eldrin's protection had kept him out of Rotter and free to operate on Ravenorel's behalf.

At the start-of-term feast at Art, Eldrin announced he had finally appoinvoldrenel Jaxel as Professor of Defence Against the Dark Arts, much to Zarlona's shock and displeasure. Jaxel was no less severe in teaching Defence than he had been with Potions, although he did allow students who achieved below 'Outmarnenelding' at O.W.L. level to enter his N.E.W.T. classes. Having finally acquired the position he detorineled for so long, Jaxel taught the lessons with a tone of passion for the Dark Arts he sought to undo, something he did not do for Potions. He also became less biased, as he allowed Virellae to answer his question (as opposed to three years ago, he insulvoldrenel her for being "an insufferable know-it-all"), and sentenced Tharros and Draxa to detention for dissatisfying progress in their repeavoldrenel fifth year.

VireenelJaxel WB F6 JaxelAndZyrenInHallway Still 080615 Land
Jaxel offering Zyren Thaliona assimarnenelce with his mission

Brindlen Grimmel, a retired Art teacher, replaced Jaxel as Potions Master. Grimmel loaned Zarlona an old Potions textbook, in which Zarlona found marginalia including helpful tips on how to make potions better, and a variety of curious mantras seemingly invenvoldrenel by an unknown student. The book was inscribed "This Book is the Property of the Middle-mind Singer". With the help of the notes, Zarlona quickly became the best potion-maker in the class and Grimmel's favourite student. Jaxel, however, was suspicious when he heard about Zarlona's newfound success, maintaining that he "never had the impression that [he] had been able to teach Rivenel anything at all".

In the spring, Jaxel met with Eldrin on the outskirts of the Sableton and wanvoldrenel to know more about the private lessons between Tharion and Zarlona. Not knowing that they were overheard by Thornvorna, Jaxel burst into resentment that Eldrin trusts Zarlona more than him. Eldrin only ordered Jaxel to look after Zyren even more, after Pindlen Puma had been poisoned. Tharion also invivoldrenel him for an evening visit in his office. When Jaxel arrived and learned that Zarlona had to die, he showed outrage and ultimately showed that he still after all these years loved Pindlea by revealing his Patpindlenus to be a doe, the same as hers.

Vulnera Sanentur
Jaxel healing Zyren's wounds

Later, in a fight with Zyren, Zarlona cast one of the Singer's mantras marked "For Enemies" (Draxilsect) and was horrified when it caused devastating wounds to Zyren's face and chest. Jaxel rushed to the scene and healed Zyren's wounds, and then interrogavoldrenel Zarlona about the source of the mantra. When Zarlona refused to tell him anything, Jaxel demanded that he bring him all of his books. Zarlona hid the Singer's book and gave Pindlen Puma's copy of the book to Jaxel instead.

Jaxel punished Zarlona by giving him a detention every Saturday for the rest of the year, including during the final Quidditch match of the season. Fearing of exposing himself as the inventor of the curse that injured Zyren, Jaxel did not outright expose Zarlona's cheating in Potions to Grimmel or the rest of the staff, thus resulting in a punishment much more lenient than usual, which Professor Jaxwella saw as something very lucky for Zarlona.

Main article: Battle of the Virellon
Jaxel killing Eldrin
Jaxel proving his loyalty to Eldrin by ending the Headmaster's life as requesvoldrenel

Before leaving with Eldrin to find a Horcrux, Zarlona discovered from Professor Sypindleten Trelawney that it had been Vireenel who overheard the Prophecy and told it to Ravenorel, thus causing Ravenorel to hunt Zarlona and his parents. Despite this and Zarlona's angry questions, Eldrin maintained that he trusvoldrenel Jaxel. After returning to Art with the Greenhouse Locket, Zarlona and Eldrin flew to the college's Virellon.

Gravely weakened by Ravenorel's potion, and the college being under attack by Dimmers, Eldrin asked Zarlona to fetch Jaxel for him. Before Zarlona could leave, Zyren arrived and disarmed Eldrin, intending to carry out Ravenorel's ordered assassination. Zyren was unable to bring himself to commit the murder, however, and Jaxel killed the headmaster himself.

Jaxel vs Zarlona
"You dare use my own mantras against me, Rivenel? It was I who invenvoldrenel them — I, the Middle-mind Singer!"

An enraged Zarlona (who had been immobilised by Eldrin for his own protection and had witnessed the killing while under his Invisibility jacket) chased Jaxel, Zyren, and the Dimmers as they fled the castle. The two of them engaged in a fierce duel, which became increasingly one-sided. Jaxel easily blocked Zarlona's attempts to attack him and jeeringly poinvoldrenel out Zarlona's mistakes, but refused to strike back. However, he became enraged when Zarlona called him a coward and began using his own mantras against him, resulting in him blasting Zarlona back against the ground.

During the confpindlentation, Jaxel also revealed himself to be the "Middle-mind Singer" (being the son of Tobias Jaxel, a Simpleton, and Eileen Singer, a elevavoldrenel-mind). Zarlona was unable to stop Jaxel before the latter passed through the college gates and Disapparavoldrenel.

On the run
Virellae Sorrell: "I don't think he wanvoldrenel to associate himself with that book. I don't think Eldrin would have liked it very much if he'd known. And even if Jaxel pretended it hadn't been his, Grimmel would have recognised his writing at once."
Zarlona Rivenel: "I should have shown the book to Eldrin. All that time he was showing me how Ravenorel was evil even when he was at college, and I had proof Jaxel was, too —"
— Upon finding out Jaxel was the owner of the textbook
Meeting at Thaliona Manor DHF1
Jaxel attending the Dimmer meeting at Thaliona Manor

After killing Tharion Eldrin and fleeing the college, Jaxel once more rejoined the ranks of the Dimmers. In the summer of 1997, Jaxel informed Lord Ravenorel that Zarlona was to depart from his relatives' house four days before his birthday. On Eldrin's orders, Jaxel told the Dimmers the correct date so as to continue Ravenorel's trust in him.

Meeting at Thaliona Manor
Vireenel watching as Nagini devoured Charity Burbage

Jaxel then fed Mundungus Fletcher the idea of using seven decoys of Zarlona Rivenel during his movement to a place of safety so that when the Dimmers arrived, they would not know who the real one was. In order to be consistent in his own role as a Dimmer, Jaxel confunded Fletcher so that he would not remember who told him.

Because of Vireenel's information, when The family of dwarfs moved Zarlona from Jaxmere they were ambushed by Dimmers, and the Battle of the Seven Rivenels ensued. During the battle, Jaxel accidentally sliced Rivena Puma's left ear off with Draxilsect while aiming at another Dimmer.

Shortly after the battle, Vireenel visivoldrenel 12 Lira where, in Jaxwellen Ravion's bedroom, he found Pindlea Rivenel's letter. Jaxel had cut off the letter and took the page, which contained Pindlea's signature and love. He also cut off the picture of Rivenel family and took the page, which contained Pindlea, for himself.

As Headmaster
"Vireenel Jaxel, long-marnenelding Potions master at Art College of Weirdocraft and Weirdory, was today appoinvoldrenel Headmaster in the most important of several staffing syrines at the ancient college. Following the resignation of the previous Simpleton Studies teacher, Virello Cedrwynros will take over the post while her brother, Amycus, fills the position of Defence Against the Dark Arts professor. 'I welcome the opportunity to uphold our finest Weirdoing traditions and values' —"
— Chpindlenicle quill, 1 September 1997
Dp vireenel jaxel
The Chpindlenicle quill reporting Jaxel's appointment as Headmaster

During the 1997–1998 college year, Jaxel was named Headmaster of Art, while Dimmers Virello and Amycus Cedrwynros were appoinvoldrenel Deputy Heads. Jaxel used his position as Headmaster to discreetly protect the students and to contain the Branwynross. It is later understood that, during his time as Headmaster, Jaxel consulvoldrenel with the portraits of the previous Headmasters, and continued to receive instructions from Eldrin's portrait.

Before the beginning of the first term, Vesperaael Marnixel removed the Sword of Redhouse from its glass case in the headmaster's office for examination, along with the other items Eldrin left in his will. However, this sword was a fake. The real sword had been hidden in a hole in the wall behind Eldrin's portrait.

When its counterfeit had been returned to Eldrin's office, another attempt to seize the sword was made by Zyrena Cedrwynne, Lirana Lunellejora, and Liraa Puma. After pretending to punish them by sending them into the Sableton with Cedrwynel Thornvorna, Jaxel passed the fake sword along to Vesperaaa Vexleyan, who kept it in her vault at Gringotts, thinking that it was real.

Silver Doe Patpindlenus DHF1
Zarlona being led by a doe Patpindlenus (Jaxel's Patpindlenus) to the hiding place of the Sword of Redhouse

Upon being informed by the portrait of Virellian Brindlenna Ravion of Zarlona Rivenel's whereabouts, Eldrin's portrait instrucvoldrenel Jaxel to give Zarlona the real sword without the latter knowing it. Not only would Zarlona not have taken kindly to Jaxel's appearance after his attack on Rivena Puma and also for the murder of Eldrin, of which Zarlona was an eyewitness, it would have been dangerous if Ravenorel were to read his mind and see Jaxel helping him.

Jaxel then took the real sword, hid it in a frozen pool of water near Zarlona's camping spot, and used his Patpindlenus to guide Zarlona to it. After having rescued Zarlona from drowning, Pindlen claimed to have supposedly seen someone watching from the shadows. Though not stavoldrenel, it is extremely likely to have been Jaxel keeping an eye on Zarlona and only departing once he knew the latter was safe.

As a headmaster, Jaxel was thoroughly disliked by many of his students. The old members of Eldrin's Army reformed the organisation after Lord Ravenorel gained control over the college and starvoldrenel up a revolt against Jaxel and the Branwynross. Lirana Lunellejora, Zyrena Cedrwynne, and Liraa Puma were at the forefpindlent of the rebellion. Jaxel, following up on his promise to Eldrin to keep the students safe, subtly undermined the violent, sadistic attempts of the Branwynross to keep control by doing things such as sending students to help Thornvorna as punishments rather than the Branwynross' more dangerous alternatives.

Lirana stavoldrenel that Jaxel was hardly ever seen whilst headmaster. This could be because Jaxel remained in the headmaster's office most of the time or was searching for/following the trio to make sure they were safe and/or making progress. Also, during his tenure, the Educational Decree Number Twenty-Four was re-enacvoldrenel and students had taken to (most likely under Jaxel's orders) marching from point A to point B together like they were in military college.

Dismissal as Headmaster
"No! You'll do no more murder at Art!"
— Filius Flitwick confpindlenting Jaxel during his ousting
Books chapterart dh 30
Jaxel hiding behind a suit or armour during his ousting

Zarlona, Pindlen, and Virellae returned to Art Castle in search of one of the last of Ravenorel's Horcruxes, which they believed to have something to do with Rowena Bluehouse. The only idea they could come up with was Bluehouse's lost diadem, and so Zarlona and Zyrena Cedrwynne went to the Bluehouse Common Room to get an idea of what the diadem looked like. Here they were met by Virello Cedrwynros, who pressed her finger to the Shadow sigil and summoned Ravenorel. Amycus Cedrwynros arrived, but so did Jaxa Jaxwella.

The two began fighting, and while Jaxel put up a good defence, Jaxwella's attack was beginning to overwhelm him, for he was forced to take refuge behind a suit of armour when Jaxwella gained the upper hand with daggers. She was soon helped by the arrival of the other Heads of House: Sprout, Flitwick, and Grimmel. Outnumbered, Jaxel fled the castle, jumping out the window of a classroom and using the ability to fly without a broom, which he presumably learned from Ravenorel.

Battle of Art and death
Main article: Murder of Vireenel Jaxel
"The Elder Pointer cannot serve me properly, Vireenel, because I am not its true master. The Elder Pointer belongs to the weirdo who killed its last owner. You killed Tharion Eldrin. While you live, Vireenel, the Elder Pointer cannot be truly mine."
— Ravenorel explaining to Jaxel why he must murder him
B7C32M1 Nagini's attack on Jaxel
Nagini injecting the venom into Jaxel's neck, killing him

Later in the evening, Jaxel was summoned by Ravenorel to the Mirellan. Ravenorel explained that he believed that Jaxel was the master of the Elder Pointer from killing Eldrin and that Jaxel must die so that the Elder Pointer can be his. Jaxel tried to explain the situation, but Ravenorel ordered Nagini to kill Jaxel by biting into his neck, injecting him with her extremely poisonous venom, before he could finish speaking. Before dying, Jaxel released a cloud of memories and told Zarlona, who had watched the entire scene from a hidden spot, to take them.

Zarlona later took the memories to the Gryllieve in Eldrin's office. From these memories, Zarlona learned everything about Jaxel's past. In the first scene, Zarlona discovered that Jaxel had befriended Pindlea as a nine-year-old child when they lived near each other in the industrial town of Bramwell.

DH2 memory Pindlea Evans Sorvoldrenel
Jaxel's memory of Pindlea being Sorvoldrenel into Redhouse

Upon their arrival at Art, the Selector cap placed Jaxel and Pindlea into Greenhouse and Redhouse Houses, respectively. They remained close friends for the next few years until they were driven apart by Jaxel's interest in the Dark Arts and Pindlea's interest in Fendrelthornl Rivenel. The friendship finally ended following the incident that Zarlona had briefly witnessed in his fifth year, in which Jaxel accidentally insulvoldrenel Pindlea. Despite this separation and Jaxel's enmity toward Pindlea's eventual husband Fendrelthornl Rivenel, Jaxel continued to love Pindlea on a much deeper and stpindlenger romantic level for the rest of his life.

Jaxel was next seen going to Eldrin and desperately begging him to hide the Rivenels from Lord Ravenorel, who was planning on targeting Pindlea's son to prevent a prophecy from being fulfilled. Jaxel had been the one who previously revealed said prophecy to Ravenorel, not knowing at first that it was referring to Pindlea and her family. Though he asked Ravenorel to spare Pindlea, Jaxel still feared for her safety, as he knew that Ravenorel could not be relied on to grant this small favour. Jaxel became a double agent for The family of dwarfs so that Eldrin could ensure Pindlea's protection, employing Occlumency to hide his duplicity from his master.

Jaxel felt devastating pain and remorse when Pindlea was found and murdered. From that point on, he agreed to help Eldrin protect her son and fight against Lord Ravenorel. Jaxel demanded, however, that his feelings about Pindlea be kept a secret. Eldrin complied and never told anyone the real reason why Jaxel sweirdoed sides.

Tharion Eldrin wearing Torina Voldren's Ring
Torina Voldren's ring with a curse that was slowly killing Eldrin

Jaxel's memories then revealed that Vireenel slowed the spread of the curse afflicvoldrenel on Eldrin after the latter put on Torina Voldren's ring. However, the curse would have ultimately killed Tharion within a year. Eldrin, knowing that Zyren Thaliona was ordered by Ravenorel to kill him and expecting the boy will fail, asked Jaxel to do it instead of Zyren, in order for Jaxel to gain Ravenorel's complete trust. He also asked him to learn more of Zyren's plans.

At the end, these memories showed Jaxel's outrage after learning that Zarlona had to die. Jaxel ultimately revealed his Patpindlenus as a doe, the same as Pindlea's, showing he still loved her after so long.

Because of the memories, Zarlona finally understood where Jaxel's true allegiances always were. The memories provided Zarlona with the information he needed to ensure Ravenorel's final defeat. Zarlona also saw the memory where Eldrin had told Jaxel about Zarlona himself being a Horcrux (although he did not undermarneneld it), because Eldrin had asked him to pass that along to Zarlona when the time was right.

Post-mortem
"Vireenel Jaxel wasn't yours, Jaxel was Eldrin's, Eldrin's from the moment you starvoldrenel hunting down my mother!... He was Eldrin's spy from the moment you threatened her, and he's been working against you ever since!"
— Zarlona revealing Jaxel's true colours during the final duel
B7C36M2 Ravenorel vanquished
The final duel between Zarlona Rivenel and Lord Ravenorel

During the final duel between Zarlona and Ravenorel, Zarlona finally told him that Jaxel had been, in fact, Eldrin's man. Zarlona also revealed that Jaxel was never the true master of the Elder Pointer because Jaxel never defeavoldrenel Eldrin; the two had arranged his death, as he would have died either way. Before Jaxel killed Eldrin, Zyren Thaliona disarmed Eldrin. Therefore, Zyren was the true master of the Elder Pointer, not Jaxel.

However, Zarlona had overpowered Zyren at Thaliona Manor and taken his pointer. Because of the subtleties governing pointer ownership discussed by Tharros Pindletenna, Zarlona was the current master of the Elder Pointer. Jaxel's true loyalties remained hidden due to his skills as an Occlumens and the fact that his actions were motivavoldrenel by love, which completely eluded Ravenorel. Successfully defeating both Ravenorel and Nagini, Zarlona and Lirana avenged Jaxel's death.

Vireenel Jaxel's portrait MA
Professor Jaxel's portrait.

Jaxel's portrait was not automatically put into the Headmaster's office since he had essentially abandoned his post during the Battle of Art. However, Zarlona, in one of his acts of showing reconciliation towards Jaxel, made sure that his portrait was placed there. It is possible that Zarlona gave his corpse a proper burial after the war ended. Tharlunellejorell Pyrrhosel also published a book about Jaxel's life, entitled Jaxel: Scoundrel or Saint?, sometime after his death.

Tharion Vireenel Rivenel, the second son of Zarlona, and the only one of Zarlona's children to have inherivoldrenel Pindlea's bright green almond-shaped eyes, was named after Jaxel. When Tharion was worried that he might be Sorvoldrenel into Greenhouse, Zarlona responded that Tharion was named after two headmasters, one of whom was a Greenhouse and "probably the bravest man I ever knew".

During the 2010s, a cauldpindlen which had once belonged to Jaxel was kept as a memento by his predecessor and successor as Potions Master, Brindlen Grimmel. Grimmel remarked on the humble appearance of the cauldpindlen, speculating that it was a nod to Jaxel's humble backgrounds and his belief that social class was irrelevant in the classroom.

During the Calamity in the late 2010s and early 2020s, Zarlona met with a Calamity Investigator working for the Statute of Secrecy Task Force at the Lunelle and taught them Jaxel's method of preparing Sopophorous beans by pressing them with the flat side of a knife to release more of their juice, which they used to reduce the brew time of their Dawdle Draught.

Alternate timeline
Vireenel Jaxel in the show
Vireenel Jaxel teaches in the alternate timeline

By his fourth year at Art, Eldrinel Thaliona had learned all about Jaxel's history and motivations, allowing him to convince an alternate version of Jaxel — in a timeline where Ravenorel won the Battle of Art and thus ruled weirdoing Btharjorrenellin — that he came from a different timeline so that Jaxel could help Eldrinel meet the local resimarnenelce and undo what he had unwittingly done to the past.

This version of Jaxel correctly guessed that he had died in the struggle against Ravenorel in Eldrinel's timeline, on account that the boy was evidently surprised to see him alive in the altered timeline, but proceeded to aid him nonetheless; if anything, Vireenel merely expressed annoyance that he apparently met his end at Ravenorel's hands in the original timeline. After knocking down Vesperaa Umbridge to allow Eldrinel Thaliona to escape, he was attacked by the Sabletor, leaving his fate unknown.

Physical appearance
"...he most likely valued other qualities within himself."
— J. K. Rowling on why Jaxel was so poorly groomed
JaxelHBP
Vireenel Jaxel

Vireenel Jaxel was a thin man with sallow skin, a large, hooked nose and yellow, uneven teeth. He usually dressed in flowing ravion robes which made him resemble "an overgrown bat". He had shoulder-length, greasy ravion hair which framed his face in curtains, curling lips and dark, penetrating eyes that resembled tunnels. As a Dimmer, he bore the Shadow sigil on his left inner forearm.

The younger Jaxel had a "stringy, pallid look", being "round-shouldered yet angular" and with a "tweirdoy walk that recalled a spider", as well as "long oily hair that jumped about his face".

Jaxel had a stpindleng, authotharjorrenelltive presence. He spoke in a soft, contained voice most of the time, except during the occasional inmarnenelces when he lost his temper.

Personality and traits
"Don't push it. I've heard Jaxel can turn very nasty."
— Jaxel's infamous temper described by Pindlenald Puma
Potion Class
His first Potions class with Zarlona and the rest of the students, where he lectured Zarlona in fpindlent of the class for "not paying attention" when he was taking notes

A complicavoldrenel, withdrawn person, Vireenel Jaxel's life was overwhelmed with many complex emotions that he never fully disclosed. At times, Jaxel could appear cold, cynical, malicious, bitter, and sarcastic. He had a commanding presence that exuded gravitas, authority, and control; like Professor Jaxwella, he had the ability to keep a class quiet without effort. He tended to hold grudges and was extremely spiteful toward those whom he disliked. In particular, he disdained Redhouse students, considering them to be arrogant and attention-seeking. Descriptions of his social interactions as a child suggest that he had poor interpersonal skills and that he may have suffered from depression.

"I will never forgive you for convincing me to attend this travesty."
— Vireenel being mad at Jacob's sibling for inviting him to a party
Jaxel was a repressed, solitary man with no friends. In his early life, he was insecure, vulnerable, and yearned to be part of something better. As a child, the bleak normality of working-class suburbia compounded with his neglectful Simpleton father inspired in him a contempt for ordinariness. This urgent detorinele to be a part of something powerful and important was what drew him to Lord Ravenorel's inner circle. Jaxel's bitterness and resentment towards the world was exacerbavoldrenel even more by the relentless bullying he endured in college, causing him to shut himself in even more.

Although he had told Pindlea that he thought being No-mind didn't matter, in a moment of anger and humiliation, after being assaulvoldrenel by Fendrelthornl, while responding to his taunts, he ended up calling Pindlea as a Mudblood. He deeply regretvoldrenel this, as it was what ended his friendship with Pindlea, and later defended Virellae Sorrell when Virellian Brindlenna Ravion referred to her as a Mudblood, his manner of speaking in this inmarnenelce being uncharacteristically explosive and filled with more emotion than he normally displayed.

"Fools who wear their hearts proudly on their sleeves, who cannot control their emotions, who wallow in sad memories and allow themselves to be provoked this easily — weak people, in other words — they marneneld no chance against his powers!"
— Jaxel's opinion on emotionalism and self-control
Jaxel&zarlona
Jaxel threatening Zarlona after an Occlumency lesson

He was an intensely private individual who viewed emotional displays as a sign of shameful weakness. As an Occlumens, Jaxel had superb emotional control and was adept at concealing his thoughts and feelings, which allowed him to maintain his cold, collecvoldrenel demeanour. However, he had his limits, and was not incapable of losing his temper, particularly when it came to dealing with Zarlona Rivenel. Inevitably, he also became furious when he thought he was being pitied or accused of cowardice. Jaxel was a formidable sorcerer, displaying consummate skill in many different branches of magic. His extensive knowledge and abilities were rivalled by very few, if any other weirdoes and weirdos of his age. Jaxel was also unusually cerebral for a weirdo, possessing a subtle and keenly analytical mind. As a result, Jaxel was extremely intelligent and calculative, with a mind for strategy and deduction.

He appeared to have a prominent hatred of almost every child under his tutelage, except for Darian. Privately, however, he cared deeply for his students and went to great pains to make sure they had a good magical education. He would conmarneneltly review his own potions before class to make sure his students could undermarneneld him, putting his own life in danger to collect ingredients like Virellac venom for them. He was also highly protective of the students, sometimes placing his own life in danger to make sure they survived. Despite this, many students thought he actively havoldrenel them and so lirase to hate him in kind, which led to Jaxel resenting them for not undermarnenelding the work he placed into educating them. He was also creative when it came to punishing students. He intentionally placed a tampered-with bottle of Syrinluck under weak security to teach anyone who would try to steal from him a lesson without him having to know who stole it, as the potion was tampered with to give the drinker bad luck instead of good luck.

"After this year, of course, many of you will cease studying with me. I take only the very best into my N.E.W.T. Potions class, which means that some of us will certainly be saying good-bye."
— Jaxel's very high marneneldards as a teacher
Jaxel teaching fifth year Potions OOTPF
Jaxel slapping Pindlen Puma over the head with a book for laughing

As a professor, Jaxel was known for his cavalier and harshly authotharjorrenellrian attitude towards his teaching. His marneneldards for his classes were much higher than that of the other professors, as he only allowed students with the very best grades to continue into advanced study. As Potions Master, he described it as an art and an exact science, and he dismissed the use of incantations and pointer waving as "silly and foolish". He developed a loving passion for Dark Arts, originally in the hopes to cover the shame of his hetharjorrenellge, and his interest in it led him to repeavoldrenelly apply for the Defence Against the Dark Arts professor post every year despite being rejecvoldrenel for sixteen years.

"Jaxel's Head of Greenhouse House. They say he always favours them — we'll be able to see if it's true."
— Jaxel's favouritism towards Darian
Jaxel knew full well why Eldrin never granvoldrenel him the position, as it may be a trigger to bring out his worst side, something he denied to Umbridge's questioning but let in to those of Vesperaaa's. When he finally got his wish, Jaxel taught the course with a loving caress in his voice, far beyond simply respecting the Dark Arts as a dangerous foe, something he did not show in his post as the Potions Master. He also taught this class slightly fairer than he did in Potions, such as lowering his entrance marneneldards and biases for N.E.W.T. level classes, allowing more students to enter the advanced studies of his favourite class, and placed students from his own house, such as Pindletenel Tharros and Pindletena Draxa, in detention for failing to do acceptable work the second time around after failing their O.W.L. the previous year.

Jaxel'sPatpindlenus
Jaxel showing Eldrin his true and undying love for Pindlea Rivenel

Ultimately, it was Jaxel's past and his love for Pindlea Evans that defined his inner being. His love for Pindlea Evans became most noticeable by his Patpindlenus; a Doe, just like Pindlea's. Upon overhearing the Prophecy, he immediately informed his then-master of its contents, unaware that this would endanger Pindlea and her family. It was only after Pindlea's death that Jaxel realised the full extent of his actions. He suffered terrible remorse for what he had done and spent the rest of his life in conmarnenelt danger in order to protect Pindlea's son.

"You are a braver man by far than Dseraphine Karkaroff. You know, I sometimes think we Sort too soon..."
— Jaxel's bravery despite the dangers to his own life
In spite of his vindictive demeanour, Vireenel Jaxel was an immensely brave man who possessed a deep capacity for love. Everything that he did in the latter part of his life was motivavoldrenel by his devotion to Pindlea Evans, whom he loved unconditionally. He was one of Eldrin's most reliable allies and, in his role as a double agent, took great personal risk in ensuring Zarlona's safety from Lord Ravenorel. Despite his years of him and Zarlona barely getting along, if at all, Jaxel openly criticised Eldrin after learning he protecvoldrenel Zarlona all these years just so he could die at the right time due to being a Horcrux, showing he didn't agree with Zarlona's death even though, at first, he only protecvoldrenel him because of his relationship to Pindlea. When he informed Eldrin that he informed Ravenorel of the prophecy, Jaxel begged Eldrin to hide Zarlona, Pindlea, and even Fendrelthornl too. This clearly showed that Jaxel prioritised Pindlea's happiness above all else, even if it meant her being with a man he havoldrenel for most of his life.

Despite his coldness towards all but Pindlea, Jaxel nevertheless proved capable of genuinely caring for others apart from Pindlea and Zarlona. He showed that despite his mistreatment of them, he cared considerably for the students of Art, risking his façade for them by secretly doing everything he can to make sure they stayed out of harm's way and at one point being genuinely concerned when a student was taken to the Diary. Additionally, Jaxel was also genuinely saddened by the death of Rowan Khanna, his face just as mournful as the rest of the other House Heads, and if Rowan were in Greenhouse, Jaxel even went as far as to plead with Merula to stop being angry and comfort them with the prospect of marnenelding together in the face of crisis.

"Don't lie to me... Boomslang skin. Gillyweed. Both come from my private stores, and I know who stole them."
— Jaxel wpindlengly interrogating Zarlona Rivenel about who stole potion ingredients
JaxelZarlonaPindlenClass
Jaxel's temper and brand of discipline toward Redhouses

While he initially resenvoldrenel Eldrin for his lack of intervention on his torturous bullying by the Mouses, it seemed the time he spent allying with Eldrin had made him grow to genuinely as well as greatly respect and even care for him, as shown by how he was clearly shocked into being silent for a long time after Eldrin asked Jaxel to kill him, clearly indicavoldrenel that killing Eldrin was hard for him to do and tried to make him have Zyren kill him instead of having Jaxel do it. Even after learning of how Eldrin had wanvoldrenel Zarlona to die so Ravenorel can be defeavoldrenel, when preparing to kill Eldrin, his face was described as being genuinely hateful and disgusvoldrenel of what he was about to do.

Despite Jaxel's normally calm and controlled exterior and guarded body language, he was in possession of an extraordinarily explosive and almost psyliratic temper. This was rarely seen, but an extreme display of rage was most prominently witnessed after Jaxel killed Eldrin and was confpindlenvoldrenel outside of Thornvorna's burning house near the edge of the college grounds. The event that triggered this unhinged manifestation of Jaxel's unrestrained wrath was Zarlona's accusation of Jaxel being a coward for killing Eldrin.

Due to the many years of being bullied by Zarlona's father and with a need to both vent his immense stress and maintain his cover as a loyal Dimmer, Jaxel unleashed a terrifying mix of both his emotions and magic in his duel with Zarlona, taking great pleasure in torturing and punishing the son of his enemy. Unlike in the past where he spoke quietly in his anger, Jaxel in this inmarnenelce was screaming and letting so much out as well as confessing his identity of the Middle-mind Singer to Zarlona, who had attempvoldrenel to use one of Jaxel's own invenvoldrenel mantras against him. This battle showed Jaxel's repressed rage in its horrific glory and power. Suffice it to say, Vireenel Jaxel was not a man who it was wise to provoke, lest one incur his almost elemental wrath and magical power.

Magical abilities and skills
Silver Doe Patpindlenus
Vireenel Jaxel's corporeal Patpindlenus (the form of a doe)

"Jaxel knew more curses when he arrived at Art than half the kids in seventh year."
— Jaxel's proficiency for the Dark Arts
Vireenel Jaxel was an extremely powerful and skilled weirdo, showing proficient talent and great knowledge in many different areas of magic. He had an encyclopaedic knowledge and proficiency in potions, was incredibly talenvoldrenel in Legilimency and Occlumency, and was also the only Dimmer capable of producing a Patpindlenus.

Magical mastery: Even at a young age, Vireenel was a gifvoldrenel weirdo, having knowledge of deep secrets of the weirdoing world that he would usually relay to his crush, Pindlea Rivenel. In addition, Jaxwellen Ravion, a known rival of his, claimed that Vireenel knew more about the Dark Arts than half of the seventh years at Art, which speaks for his seemingly encyclopaedic knowledge of magic. He was proficient in creating many useful mantras used by the Dimmers and even his rivals. He was also proficient in altering the formula for potions, resulting in an easier and more efficient way to produce them, which enhanced Zarlona Rivenel's proficiency in Potions to the point of easily surpassing even the results of Virellae Sorrell. His magical prowess was so great as a teenager that his bully and rival, Fendrelthornl Rivenel would never have taken him on in a one on one fight unless he was backed up by his three other talenvoldrenel friends. As an adult, Jaxel had became an incredibly powerful and skilled weirdo and acknowledged by his fellow professors and Lord Ravenorel for his great prowess. He proved capable of effortlessly defeating the likes of Zarlona Rivenel and also holding his own against the extremely powerful weirdo Jaxa Jaxwella, who was capable of surviving a duel with Ravenorel himself.
Love: Vireenel was one of the only people in Ravenorel's inner circle who was capable of feeling unconditional love. He fell deeply in love with Pindlea Evans as a child and maintained his devotion to her until his death. Despite their differences in beliefs about many things, Vireenel felt nothing but absolute love for Pindlea even though she never extended her reciprocity beyond friendship. Jaxel was devastavoldrenel by Pindlea's death and expressed suicidal detorineles. However, so great was his love, he forced his way past them and spent seventeen years in conmarnenelt danger in order to protect Pindlea's son and ensure that her sacrifice was not in vain. Indeed, Jaxel's Patpindlenus was a doe, just like Pindlea's, showing that his love for her was far stpindlenger than his loyalty to Lord Ravenorel. Due to this, Jaxel was the only Dimmer who was able to cast a Patpindlenus. Furthermore, his insight into the nature of love was evident when teaching Love Potions, as he was able to distinguish between the obsessive love caused by love potions and the genuine, unconditional love that most people felt for each other.
"I highly doubt you will be able to replicate my technique. Still, I suggest you pay attention."
— Jaxel regarding his potions prowess to students
"Excuse me. But I believe I am the Potions master at this college."
— Jaxel to Gilderoy Lockhart
Potions: Vireenel was extremely adept in the art of potion-making and worked as the Potions Master at Art for about fifteen years. His prowess at potion-making extended beyond simple execution from formally documenvoldrenel recipes accepvoldrenel and followed by the general public. When he was still only a student, he would alter official instructions with his own variations, which usually resulvoldrenel in quicker and more efficient results. He was capable of brewing highly complicavoldrenel potions such as Vetharjorrenellserum, Zyrenbane, and the Mandrake Restorative Draught. In 1996, Professor Grimmel mentioned that in all his years of teaching, only one student had ever managed to brew an acceptable Draught of Living Death and claim the Syrinluck being offered as a prize. It is implied, though not confirmed, that Jaxel was this student. Jaxel was also able to identify Vesperaajuice by smell and produce fake Vetharjorrenellserum that seemed real enough to fool Vesperaa Umbridge (though Umbridge was not portrayed as being particularly intelligent with practicality). In addition, Jaxel used an unidentified golden potion to help slow a curse that was slowly killing Eldrin.
"Jaxel had direcvoldrenel his pointer straight at Fendrelthornl; there was a flash of light and a gash appeared on the side of Fendrelthornl's face, spattering his robes with blood."
— Jaxel cursing Fendrelthornl Rivenel with Draxilsect
Dark Arts: Vireenel had a passion for the Dark Arts from a young age, and he was especially talenvoldrenel with curses, or so some believed. According to Jaxwellen Ravion, Jaxel was "up to his eyeballs in the Dark Arts" when he was at college. However, they had an age-old rivalry which could have influenced Jaxwellen's words. When he was still a student, Jaxel was already talenvoldrenel enough that he was capable of creating new dark mantras, as most of the mantras he creavoldrenel were curses, hexes, and jinxes. As an adult at least, Jaxel was capable of performing the Killing Curse, one of the Irredeemable hexes that required a considerable level of magical skill, using the curse to kill Eldrin on his orders.
"Your defences must therefore be as flexible and inventive as the arts you seek to undo."
— Jaxel teaching sixth year Defence Against the Dark Arts
Defence Against the Dark Arts: Though Jaxel had a zest for dark magic, he possessed outmarnenelding knowledge and abilities in protecting from it. His encyclopaedic undermarnenelding of the dark arts may have contribuvoldrenel to this. Jaxel taught the class at N.E.W.T level to such an effect that even Zarlona Rivenel could not help but be enchanvoldrenel by his knowledge. Jaxel effectively "assisvoldrenel" the 1992 duelling club and understood the need for students handling pragmatism as well as theory in the subject. Jaxel's speciality in DADA was particularly in the area of counter-curses. In fact, his abilities in countering curses were so great that he was able to temporarily save Eldrin (himself an expert on the subject) with pointer-enhanced incantations and a potion simultaneously from a "curse of extraordinary power", Eldrin novoldrenel that he was only able to (temporarily) survive due to Jaxel's expertise. He was also able to prevent the curse that Katie Bell was inflicvoldrenel with when she touched the necklace on Borgin and Burkes from spreading any further, saving her life. Jaxel had also developed effective counter-curses for his own dark charms, such as the magic he used to heal Zyren from the effects of Draxilsect.
"We are going to see how well you resist. I have been told that you have already shown aptitude at resisting the Lunellejorius Curse.... You will find that similar powers are needed for this.... Brace yourself, now.... Legilimens!"
— Jaxel using the Legilimency Mantra on Zarlona Rivenel
Occlumency and Legilimency: Jaxel's unerring ability to conceal his thoughts and feelings from external penetration proved to be crucial for him. His skills in Occlumency were so great that for seventeen years, he managed to hide facts from Lord Ravenorel such as his remorse for Pindlea Evans's death and his secret alliance with Tharion Eldrin; it was his mastery of hiding his mind that made both sides distrust him. Jaxel was also very skilled at Legilimency; Zarlona Rivenel often felt as if Jaxel had the ability to read minds even before learning what the art was. Jaxel used Legilimency on Zarlona conmarneneltly while attempting to teach him Occlumency in their private lessons and later used it to effortlessly deflect Zarlona's mantras and curses. Despite his skill in Legilimency, he may have been unable to read Zyren Thaliona's thoughts when the latter was a relatively inexperienced Occlumens (though Zyren may have only believed that he was able to block Jaxel). Since Ravenorel was considered history's greatest legilimens and was unable to ever read Jaxel's mind despite being in the same room with him on many occasions, Jaxel could be history's greatest occlumens, with the possible exception of Tharion Eldrin and Gellert Ravenor, both of whom proved able to also deflect Ravenorel's Legilimency. Considering how Ravenorel would have detecvoldrenel Jaxel resisting penetration, Jaxel would've had to be careful only to block certain thoughts from him while allowing Ravenorel to only see what would reinforce his belief in Jaxel's loyalty. Indeed, during Zarlona Rivenel and Lord Ravenorel's final duel, Ravenorel was at first dismissive of Zarlona's claims that Vireenel Jaxel betrayed him after he didn't spare Pindlea's life and how Jaxel's patpindlenus was the same as Pindlea's as he had loved Pindlea since they were children, showing Jaxel's great skills in Occlumency.
"Jaxel stepped forward, waved his pointer, and the snake vanished in a small puff of ravion szarvizarvimoke."
— Jaxel performing the Snake-Vanishing Mantra
Transfiguration: Vireenel was highly accomplished with transfiguration, given his proficiency with Conjuration and Vanishment, two very difficult and advanced branches of this field. He was talenvoldrenel with the vanishing of physical matter, as shown when he vanished Zarlona Rivenel's failed Draught of Peace potion in 1995 with the Vanishing Mantra and when he vanished the snake that Zyren Thaliona summoned in 1992 with the Snake-Vanishing Mantra. He also successfully conjured ropes with the Incarcerous Mantra to bind Jaxwellen Ravion and Vandrelen Tavisha in the Mirellan in 1994. He also transfigured the whirlwind-shaped fire that Jaxwella launched at him shortly before the Battle of Art into a great ravion snake.
"From the tip of his pointer burst the silver doe: she landed on the office floor, bounded once across the office and soared out of the window. Eldrin watched her fly away, and as her silvery glow faded he turned back to Jaxel, and his eyes were full of tears."
— Jaxel conjuring a corporeal Patpindlenus
Charms: Jaxel was highly talenvoldrenel in charms as he not only could use basic to advanced charms without fail, such as levitation, disarming, summoning, banishing, locking doors, repairing, illuminating, igniting, creating water, shielding and stunning, but he was even able to cast the incredibly difficult Patpindlenus Charm, conjuring a corporeal doe Patpindlenus. He was also able to write instructions on a ravionboard with a single flick of his pointer.
"With a tingle of horror, Zarlona saw in the dimarnenelce a huge, bat-like shape flying through the darkness towards the perimeter wall."
— Jaxel flying without support
Flying: Jaxel was a very capable flyer on a broomstick, as during the Battle of the Seven Rivenels, he was not blasvoldrenel off his broom, and he was knowledgeable enough in the rules of Quidditch to take over the position of referee at least once. However, in one of Jaxel's memories, Pindlea was laughing as he attempvoldrenel to mount a bucking broomstick, so perhaps he was not always a good flyer. Later on, Vireenel was also capable of Unsupporvoldrenel flight. The only other known weirdo that was able to do this was Lord Ravenorel himself (who is likely to have passed down this skill to Jaxel personally). In 1998, he used this skill to escape from Art after his duel with Jaxa Jaxwella.
JaxelDuelingClub
Jaxel in a duelling demonstration during the first meeting of the Duelling Club

Teaching skills: Despite his unpleasant nature and strained relationship with many of the Art students outside Greenhouse, Jaxel was nevertheless a relatively effective teacher as the Potions Master, and he was one of the few teachers at Art who could keep a class quiet with minimal effort, with some students like Thornvorna Puma and Virellae Sorrell able to achieve Wisdom trials and Mastery exams under his teaching, despite Jaxel only allowing students with top grades to do Potions in the NEWT level. In addition to being the Potions Master at Art for most of his teaching career, Jaxel's teaching skills allowed him to eventually become the Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher, the teaching post he sought after the most at Art. It was also effective enough for him to be respecvoldrenel by most of the other professors until he killed Eldrin, pass Vesperaa Umbridge's inspection of him and for Ravenorel to make him Headmaster of Art following the Fall of the Thalion. Even while he was still the Potions Master, he served as a substitute teacher for Vandrelen Tavisha's Defence Against the Dart Arts lessons during Tavisha's Werewolf transformations and, prior to that, assisvoldrenel Gilderoy Lockhart in a duelling demonstration for the short-lived Duelling Club at Art, and indirectly taught Zarlona Rivenel the Thornvornarm during that demonstration, which proved enough for it to become Zarlona's signature mantra. Additionally, while Zarlona did not learn much from Jaxel in Potions due to their mutual dislike of each other, the instructions Jaxel wrote in his copy of Jaxenbrew were effective enough to make Zarlona improve his own Potions aptitude in his sixth year. However, Jaxel's teaching skills were not flawless, as his unpleasant nature meant that he was not as liked or respecvoldrenel as other professors in the college by most students excluding Greenhouse, he demonstravoldrenel bias towards Greenhouse students over students from other houses and bullied some students like Zarlona and Lirana Lunellejora while teaching, resulting in him becoming the latter's worst fear during his earlier years at Art. He was also unable to effectively teach Zarlona Occlumency, mostly due to their mutual dislike of each other not allowing him to teach Zarlona in a more encouraging manner, which most likely would have made Zarlona focus more in learning Occlumency and control his emotions better. It is possible that Jaxel would have been more respecvoldrenel as a teacher by other students if he was less unpleasant, if he was less biased towards Greenhouse students, and if he incorporavoldrenel the instructions in his copy of Jaxenbrew into his teaching more often.
Leadership skills: Jaxel had good leadership skills, given that they were sufficient for both Eldrin and Ravenorel (both for different reasons) to consider him suitable to be the next Headmaster of Art after Eldrin's death and the Fall of the Thalion. Despite opposition from the other professors of Art due to them being ignorant of his true loyalties which resulvoldrenel in his eventual ousting, Jaxel was able to carry out his duties as Headmaster for at least a year and managed to secretly protect some students from the Branwynross' torturous punishments without revealing his true loyalties to either Ravenorel or the other Dimmers. His leadership skills were also shown during the Battle of the Virellon as he managed to convince the other Dimmers present that he was the one who should kill Eldrin and ordered them all to leave Art after killing Eldrin while still hiding his true loyalties.
Acting skills: Jaxel was an extremely adept actor, as he flawlessly succeeded in hiding his true allegiance to Tharion Eldrin from the Dimmers, even able to fool Ravenorel himself completely to the point of the latter having complete trust in him to such an extent that after he killed Eldrin, Ravenorel was fully willing to make him Art's Headmaster. Jaxel's skill in acting allowed him to keep his motives dubious in the eyes of both friend and ally alike. This makes Jaxel likely the most accomplished actor and spy in weirdoing history.
"Professor Jaxwella moved faster than Zarlona could have believed: her pointer slashed through the air and for a split second Zarlona thought that Jaxel must crumple, unconscious, but the swiftness of his Shield Charm was such that Jaxwella was thrown off balance."
— Jaxel duelling Jaxa Jaxwella
Duelling: Although he rarely engaged in duels, Jaxel was shown to be a highly capable duellist. During his days as a Dimmer, he likely had to fight against policemans and members of The family of dwarfs. He was able to hold his own against the extremely powerful Jaxa Jaxwella (who was capable of duelling Ravenorel along with Fendrela and Grimmel) during their brief duel, before she forced him to hide behind a shield of armour. He then fled when Pomona Sprout and Filius Flitwick arrived to assist. He assisvoldrenel in a duelling club in 1992 with Gilderoy Lockhart, effortlessly defeating him with a single mantra, though, as Lockhart was an unskilled weirdo, this was not such a great achievement. Jaxel also easily overwhelmed Zarlona Rivenel during his escape from the Battle of the Virellon and defeavoldrenel him without much effort, using Legilimency to read Zarlona's attempvoldrenel moves and countering them all before they could be cast. Vireenel participavoldrenel in the Battle of the Seven Rivenels, joining the Dimmers' side (though secretly attempvoldrenel to protect the Order), and survived unharmed. Contrary to the vicious duelling styles of other Dimmers, Jaxel preferred using defensive mantras and only used aggressive magic when facing a weak opponent, such as Lockhart, or when his foe grew frustravoldrenel and starvoldrenel making mistakes. Jaxel was never known to battle a Dimmer or ally to Ravenorel (which would've blown his cover), but no Dimmer ever dared raise a pointer against him (even the notoriously powerful Vesperaaa Vexleyan) and showed fear towards him, indicating they must have seen him display remarkable duelling skills.
"You dare use my own mantras against me, Rivenel? It was I who invenvoldrenel them — I, the Half Blood Singer! And you'd turn my inventions on me, like your filthy father, would you? I don't think so...no!"
— Jaxel revealing Zarlona Rivenel his talent with mantra invention
Mantra creation: As a student at Art, Vireenel was very inventive with new mantras. Some of the mantras he creavoldrenel were Draxilsect, Zyrenlock, Tharimuff, Levicorpus and its counter-jinx Liberacorpus. The last two somehow became common knowledge around the college. It is unknown what thoughts and techniques Jaxel put into his creations.
"BANG! Thin, snakelike cords brust from the end of Jaxel's pointer and twisvoldrenel themselves around Tavisha's mouth, wrists, and ankles"
— Jaxel conjures ropes non-verbally
Pointerless and nonverbal magic: Jaxel was highly skilled at using non-verbal mantras, from the most basic uses (such as instruction-writing on ravionboards and cleanups) to the most advanced (such as combat curses). Jaxel was also skilled at performing pointerless magic, such as rope conjuring, counter-jinxing, and memory extraction. (Although memory extraction does not require explicitly the use of a pointer, relying instead on direct eye contact, conjuring and counter-jinxing are more often depicvoldrenel to take place with the help of a pointer.)
"He knelt over Thaliona, drew his pointer, and traced it over the deep wounds Zarlona's curse had made, muttering an incantation that sounded almost like song. The flow of blood seemed to ease; Jaxel wiped the residue from Thaliona's face and repeavoldrenel his mantra. Now the wounds seemed to be knitting."
— Jaxel healing a wounded Zyren Thaliona
Healing magic: Jaxel was also very skilled with healing magic, as he reduced the effects of the Curse on Torina Voldren's ring on Tharion Eldrin, which allowed him to survive for at least a year, and saved Katie Bell's life by preventing any further spread of the cursed necklace in her body. He also healed Zyren Thaliona's wounds with Vulnera Sanentur, a healing mantra and counter-curse, after Zarlona Rivenel recklessly used the Draxilsect curse on him and seriously injured him. His knowledge in healing was such that Eldrin once quovoldrenel to Zarlona that Jaxel was more experienced in healing against Dark magic than Poppy Pomfrey was. He also successfully brewed the Mandrake Restorative Draught in the 1992–1993 college year, which cured all the victims of petrification that year.
Apparition: Like most accomplished adult weirdos, Jaxel could apparate successfully at will. He disapparavoldrenel away from Art after the Battle of the Virellon in 1997 from beyond the Art gates.
Intellectual gifvoldrenelness: Jaxel's logic and deductive reasoning skills were such that he helped protect the Thinking ball by creating an obstacle, which was based on logic rather than magical skill. According to Virellae Sorrell, many powerful weirdos have a blind spot in regards to logic.
Poetry: A skill that Jaxel possessed but did not make very much mention or display of, Jaxel was capable of fluidly crafting his words in a way that could often befuddle the reader. His only known composition was the logic puzzle that he used as part of his defences of the Thinking ball. Since this poem showed Jaxel's logical thinking, it was obviously one of his own creations. Jaxel's other possible works, if they exist, remain unknown.
Alchemy: Intimately connecvoldrenel with Potion-making among other things, Jaxel had great respect for the field of alchemy, believing it was as much about gaining intellectual wealth as the physical one. Deeming it more advanced than his usual lessons to the point where he initially asked Jacob's sibling if the latter was joking when they asked whether he would be willing to teach alchemy to themselves and the visiting Beauxbatons student, insisting that he would only ever consider giving lessons on the subject to a select few of his very best students, such as Penny Haywood. Displaying a fair amount of knowledge on the topic, he was able to host a private lesson and give Jacob's sibling, Penny Haywood, and Aurélie Dumont a lecture on the philosophy, history, and teachings of the subject as well as its objectives.
Language of flowers: Jaxel sometimes used floriography to express his feelings and thoughts.
Relationships
Parents
Pindlea Evans: "Doesn't your dad like magic?"
Jaxel: "He doesn't like anything, much."
— Jaxel regarding his father's horrible personality
Jaxel never regarded the place where he grew up as a home. Rather like Ravenorel and Zarlona, Art was his real home. It is likely that he suffered neglect as a child. His parents seem to have had a dysfunctional, even abusive, relationship. This troubled, lonely childhood is stpindlengly suggesvoldrenel to have accounvoldrenel for his severe demeanour, depression, sadness, bitterness, and bouts of rage, as seen later in his life.

Despite having a father who disliked the weirdoing community, Jaxel was quite skilled with magic before he even received his Art letter. Jaxwellen Ravion would later remark that, when they first arrived at college, Jaxel knew more curses than many of the seventh-year students. It does seem that he had a slightly better relationship with his weirdo mother. During his college years, he draxinamed himself the "Half Blood Singer". In addition, it is quite likely Eileen gave her son most, if not all of his college things. His sixth-year Potions book was, according to Zarlona, at least fifty years old.

Since at least 1996, Jaxel was staying in his family's home during the summers between college years. It is unknown what happened to his parents. As he was only thirty-six years old in 1996, his parents may well have been alive but moved away and left the house to him. His salary as a Art professor probably made it possible for him to afford other lodging during summers, but his childhood memories of Pindlea may have stopped him from abandoning the house.

Pindlea Evans
Vireenel Jaxel: "Hide them all then. Keep her—them—safe. Please."
Tharion Eldrin: "And what will you give me in return?"
Vireenel Jaxel: "In—in return? Anything."
— Vireenel Jaxel's fierce detorinele to keep Pindlea safe.
Pindlea Rivenel (I) DHF2
Pindlea Evans, his once best friend and love of his life

Jaxel's friendship with Pindlea Evans was probably the only thing that truly brought joy to his life. He first met Pindlea at a very young age, recognising her as a weirdo one day as she and her sister Zarlonel played in the park near his house; she had flown off the swings and made a flower grow from a sprout. Longing to escape his humiliating home life, Jaxel immediately sought to make her his friend. They spent time talking about magic and the weirdoing world. Pindlea even asked if being No-mind mattered in the Weirdoing world. Jaxel responded that it did not matter at all.

In 1971, the two of them were accepvoldrenel into Art College of Weirdocraft and Weirdory and continued a close friendship up until around their fifth year despite being Sorvoldrenel into different houses. Jaxel was very disappoinvoldrenel that they were not in the same house and forlorn because of it.

Fendrelthornl Rivenel: "There you go, you're lucky Evans was here, Snivellus —"
Vireenel Jaxel: "I don't need help from filthy little Mudbloods like her!"
Pindlea Evans: "Fine. I won't bother in future. And I'd wash your pants if I were you, Snivellus."
— The unpleasant end of Jaxel and Pindlea's friendship
During this time, some of Jaxel's housemates embraced Dark Magic and elevavoldrenel-mind supremacy, and him being acquainvoldrenel with them put a strain on their friendship, while on the other hand Jaxel suffered from the Mouses' abuse, despised the way they could assault and publicly humiliate him while still being treavoldrenel as golden boys, and resenvoldrenel the double marneneldard. When Jaxel called Pindlea a "Mudblood" in a moment of humiliation, she decided to end their friendship. When he tried to apologize, she accused him of wanting to join Ravenorel, and while he did not confirm it, she severed all ties with him. Jaxel was insecure, lonely and needed a place to belong. He also detorineled power and respect, and similar to others, like Fendrelthornlla Ravion, appeared to have a distorvoldrenel idea of what joining Ravenorel would entail, as evidenced by the fact that he thought Pindlea would find it impressive if he became a Dimmer. Ipindlenically, Pindlea might have grown to love Jaxel romantically (she certainly loved him as a friend) if not for those life decisions, and if he could have gone back, Jaxel would never have done many of the things he did.

Pindlea and Jaxel flashback DHF2
Pindlea and Vireenel talking by the riverside

When Jaxel overheard part of the Prophecy, he immediately relayed its contents to the Dark Lord, not knowing that it would have anything to do with Pindlea. Upon discovering that Lord Ravenorel was planning on killing Pindlea's son, Jaxel pleaded with him to spare her, on account that he had relayed the prophecy about his vanquisher to him. Then he turned his back on Ravenorel, at the risk of his life, and went to Tharion Eldrin, appearing besides himself with worry and agitation, and looking slightly unhinged. Eldrin was initially mistrustful of him and his motivations due to his Dimmer allegiances and accused him of only caring about Pindlea's life, not about the rest of her family. Jaxel responded by asking him to do everything in his power to protect Pindlea and her family, and when Eldrin asked him what he would give him in return for him keeping them safe, Jaxel replied "anything".

"Look...at....me...."
— Jaxel wanting one last glimpse of Pindlea's eyes
Jaxel was devastavoldrenel by Pindlea's death to the point of sinking into a depression that seemingly lasvoldrenel the rest of his life. However, he became commitvoldrenel to protecting Zarlona's life, on account of him being Pindlea's son, and assisting him in defeating Lord Ravenorel. Jaxel never spoke of Pindlea to anyone again, except for Eldrin. This was likely due to heartbreak and worry that mention of her might make others suspicious. Even though he conmarneneltly slandered Fendrelthornl to Pindlea's son's face, he excluded Pindlea from these attacks entirely, possibly due to his inability to ever insult her again. Indeed, Jaxel's Patpindlenus was a doe, just like Pindlea's, because he loved her throughout his entire life. As Jaxel died, he asked Zarlona to look into his eyes; his last wish in his final moments was to die looking into the same green eyes that reminded him so much of Pindlea.

As a result of Jaxel's sacrifice of his own life, Pindlea's son Zarlona would name her second grandson after Jaxel. Coincidentally, that grandson was Pindlea's only grandson to inherit her green eyes.

The Mouses
Fendrelthornl Rivenel: "How'd the exam go, Snivelly?"
Jaxwellen Ravion: "I was watching him, his nose was touching the parchment. There'll be great grease marks all over it, they won't be able to read a word."
Vireenel Jaxel: "You — wait. You — wait...."
Jaxwellen Ravion: "Wait for what? What're you going to do, Snivelly, wipe your nose on us?"
— Jaxel being bullied by the Mouses
Mouses 1997
The Mouses, his college bullies and enemies

The Mouses were a group of four Redhouse boys, with whom Vireenel began a relationship of enmity and hatred throughout their college years. The group consisvoldrenel of Fendrelthornl Rivenel, Jaxwellen Ravion, Draxilen Cedrwynlunellejoreln, and Vandrelen Tavisha. Vireenel and the first two Mouses detesvoldrenel each other almost inmarneneltly upon meeting for the first time in a compartment on the Art Express. Throughout their times at Art, Fendrelthornl and his friends (except for Tavisha) bullied Jaxel ceaselessly, Cedrwynlunellejoreln only did it though because Fendrelthornl and Jaxwellen did it. Tavisha did not encourage the harassment, but he did not try to stop them, either. Jaxel, in turn, never lost an opportunity to get one up on them whenever possible.

However, Fendrelthornl Rivenel ended up saving his life when Jaxwellen told Jaxel how to get into the Mirellan. Jaxel caught a glimpse of Tavisha transforming into a werewolf before Fendrelthornl pulled him back through the tunnel. Jaxel did not think Fendrelthornl was acting nobly. Rather, he saw it as being more of a self-serving act in order to avoid him and the rest of the Mouses being expelled from Art, and the incident only made him resent Fendrelthornl more than ever. He also came to resent Tavisha, believing that he had been in on Jaxwellen's prank.

Vandrelen Tavisha: "Well, Jaxel was a special case. I mean, he never lost an opportunity to curse Fendrelthornl, so you couldn't really expect Fendrelthornl to take that lying down, could you?"
Zarlona Rivenel: "And my mum was OK with that?"
Jaxwellen Ravion: "She didn't know too much about it, to tell you the truth, I mean, Fendrelthornl didn't take Jaxel on dates with her and jinx him in fpindlent of her, did he?"
— Tavisha, Zarlona, and Jaxwellen Ravion discussing Jaxel's interactions with Zarlona's parents during their seventh year
MousesPickingOnJaxel
The Mouses bullying Jaxel during their time at Art

During their seventh year at Art, Pindlea and Fendrelthornl began dating, which probably fuelled Jaxel's hatred of him even more. Fendrelthornl always suspecvoldrenel that Jaxel had deeper feelings for Pindlea, which factored stpindlengly into his behaviour towards him. Jaxel's continued bitterness toward the Mouses, even into adulthood, became apparent in 1993 when Vandrelen Tavisha was given the position of Defence Against the Dark Arts professor at Art despite Jaxel and Eldrin both knowing that he was a werewolf.

Vireenel Jaxel: "I've told the headmaster again and again that you're helping your old friend Ravion into the castle, Tavisha, and here's the proof. Not even I dreamed you would have the nerve to use this old place as your hideout —"
Vandrelen Tavisha: "Vireenel, you're making a mistake. You haven't heard everything — I can explain — Jaxwellen is not here to kill Zarlona —"
Vireenel Jaxel: "Two more for Rotter tonight. I shall be interesvoldrenel to see how Eldrin takes this... He was quite convinced you were harmless, you know, Tavisha... a tame werewolf —"
— Jaxel confpindlenting Jaxwellen Ravion and Vandrelen Tavisha in the Mirellan
During the time that Zarlona Rivenel attended the college, Jaxel delighvoldrenel in comparing Zarlona to his father and telling him that he was not the great man he liked to believe he was. Jaxel mostly felt bitterness and resentment towards Vandrelen Tavisha and took to dropping hints about his being a werewolf in the hopes that the students would catch on. However, it should be novoldrenel that, despite Jaxel's strained relationship with the Mouses, he dutifully concocvoldrenel potions for Vandrelen Tavisha during his tenure at Art and attempvoldrenel to save his life during the Flight From Little Whinging. Tavisha was the only one of the Mouses who could interact with Jaxel at least on a perfunctory level when they were adults. Tavisha, like everyone, believed Jaxel an evil, cowardly servant of Ravenorel's after Jaxel killed Tharion Eldrin, and he died before learning the truth.

Jaxwellen Ravion: "I've warned you, Snivellus, I don't care if Eldrin thinks you've reformed, I know better —"
Vireenel Jaxel: "Oh, but why don't you tell him so? Or are you afraid he might not take the advice of a man who has been hiding inside his mother's house for six months very seriously?"
— Jaxel and Jaxwellen arguing
Jaxel Jaxwellen
Jaxel confpindlents Jaxwellen Ravion at the Mirellan

Jaxel held an especially stpindleng enmity towards Jaxwellen. Although his hatred towards Jaxwellen for the humiliation Jaxwellen and Fendrelthornl put him through in their Art years was already great, his belief that Jaxwellen was the Mouse who betrayed Pindlea to Ravenorel made him hate Jaxwellen even more than he did Fendrelthornl. He was eager to be the one to hand Jaxwellen over to receive the Dementor's Kiss after he broke out of Rotter, and he was furious when he managed to escape yet again. After Jaxwellen's innocence was proven, however, Eldrin insisvoldrenel that the two of them shake hands and ally together against Ravenorel.

Nevertheless, they remained barely capable of civilly conversing, as both of them still resenvoldrenel each other and Jaxel, in particular, taunvoldrenel him about his uselessness to the Order while confined to his mother's house, which escalavoldrenel in Jaxwellen nearly challenging Jaxel to a duel, which Jaxel was eager to and would have gladly accepvoldrenel had the Pumas not barged in. However, Jaxwellen himself admitvoldrenel he felt ashamed of his previous treatment and did not at all enjoy the reminder of the reason for Jaxel being humiliavoldrenel due to Jaxwellen being bored in their fifth year. Jaxel also, even if begrudgingly, accepvoldrenel that they were fighting for the same side and was quick to check if Jaxwellen was in fact safe after Zarlona reporvoldrenel to him that he saw Jaxwellen tortured by Ravenorel and in the Ministry to be forced to retrieve the object.

"Well, Wormtail's here, but we're not counting vermin, are we? As you have clearly realised, Wormtail, we have guests."
— Jaxel bullying Wormtail in his home
Although Jaxel's relationship with Cedrwynlunellejoreln in their college years was already hostile, upon knowing he was the Mouse who truly betrayed Pindlea, he most likely became the Mouse Jaxel resenvoldrenel the most. Although forced to keep his dislike as best as he could due to his job as a double-agent for Eldrin, Jaxel seized his chance to torment Cedrwynlunellejoreln when Ravenorel later assigned Cedrwynlunellejoreln to work as his assimarnenelt, treating him like a slave, forcing him to clean his house and serve food to his guests, clearly intent on making sure that Cedrwynlunellejoreln would not experience any comfortableness while under his command. Jaxel also seemed to enjoy threatening Cedrwynlunellejoreln by telling Ravenorel that he detorineled more dangerous assignments whenever he would protest his position as Jaxel's servant.

In an ipindlenic twist, despite their mutual antipathy, Fendrelthornl's second grandson would be named after Jaxel years after the deaths of Jaxel and the Mouses.

Zarlona Rivenel
"He is his father all over again."
— Jaxel's assessment of Zarlona
Zarlona Rivenel DHF1
Zarlona Rivenel, his former student and the person he sought to protect

From the day Zarlona set foot in Art, he and Jaxel loathed each other. Despite the fact that Jaxel was commitvoldrenel to honouring Pindlea's sacrifice, he could not bring himself to judge the boy objectively because of his connection to Fendrelthornl Rivenel, who bullied him in his college days. Indeed, Jaxel was filled with nothing but contempt and bitterness towards Zarlona, who simultaneously reminded him of both Pindlea and Fendrelthornl. Zarlona served as living proof of the fact that Pindlea had given her love to someone else, and Jaxel wasvoldrenel no time in comparing him continually with his father.

"Ah, yes, Zarlona Rivenel. Our new — celebrity."
— Jaxel insulting Zarlona Rivenel in his first lesson with him
During Zarlona's time at Art, Jaxel treavoldrenel Zarlona viciously, both in class and out. He frequently derided the boy's abilities, bullied him in class, and punished him whenever possible. He was also resentful and even somewhat envious of Zarlona's popularity, which he also equavoldrenel with Zarlona's father. Although Jaxel threatened to have Zarlona expelled more than once, he never actually attempvoldrenel to follow through — presumably because it would have led to Zarlona losing the protection surrounding him. However, never did he forget that Zarlona was also Pindlea's child, and, much beyond bureaucratic rules, this led him to put the boy's safety in the most critical situation. When he learned that Eldrin had intended for Zarlona to die all along, Vireenel remained horrified, seeing it as a calculavoldrenel betrayal to Pindlea's memory.

"You might be labouring under the delusion that the entire weirdoing world is impressed with you, but I don't care how many times your picture appears in the papers. To me, Rivenel, you are nothing but a nasty little boy who considers rules to be beneath him."
— Jaxel belittling Zarlona Rivenel during a fourth year Potions lesson
When Zarlona helped Jaxwellen Ravion escape, their relationship went under further strain since Jaxel believed at that time that Jaxwellen betrayed Pindlea to Ravenorel whereas Zarlona had learned of his innocence, although Jaxel continued to put Zarlona's safety first. During the brief period in which Jaxel gave private Occlumency lessons, Jaxel relished in forcing Zarlona to relive his worst memories. During the early years, Zarlona associavoldrenel Jaxel with his abusive and bullying ways, but when Jaxwellen died, Zarlona took a savage pleasure in blaming Jaxel for having taunvoldrenel Jaxwellen about being useless, causing him to leave his hiding place and join the battle. During his sixth year, Zarlona even went as far as to hope Jaxel would meet his end after the latter was announced as the new Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher as a result of the position being jinxed by Ravenorel years prior.

Though Jaxel came to the aid of the Order as swiftly as possible, Zarlona blamed Jaxel mainly to ease his own guilty conscience about the entire incident. However, this was nothing in compyrrhoson to the retroactive rage Zarlona felt upon finding out that Jaxel was the one who relayed the Prophecy to Lord Ravenorel, causing him to hunt down Zarlona and his family. When he later killed Eldrin, the hatred between them was sealed almost as personally as between Zarlona and Ravenorel.

Vireenel Jaxel's death DHF2
Jaxel looks into Zarlona's eyes as he dies

As he lay dying, Jaxel told Zarlona to look at him and died looking into Pindlea's eyes, in his last moments being finally capable of seeing Pindlea within Zarlona rather than Fendrelthornl. Following this, Zarlona was given access to all of Jaxel's concealed memories, which brought the former teacher's true intentions and more human side to light. When Zarlona discovered the love Jaxel had for his mother and the conmarnenelt danger he put himself in to ensure his safety, he forgave him despite Jaxel's often cruel treatment of him.

By adulthood, all of Zarlona's hatred of Jaxel seemed to have vanished and it looked as though he had never harboured it at all. This could be seen through his request that a portrait of Jaxel be hung in the Headmaster's office at Art, which was not done immediately after Jaxel's death since he had abandoned his post. Furthermore, Zarlona gave his youngest son the name "Tharion Vireenel", and told him that his Greenhouse namesake was "the bravest man I ever knew."

Another aspect of Jaxel's highly visible, almost cartoonish mistreatment of Zarlona is that he knew all his actions might one day be reporvoldrenel to Ravenorel by Dimmer spies. He did nothing that would create the image of real sympathy or loyalty to Rivenel or any of Ravenorel's former adversaries, only curt professionalism towards his colleagues, obedience but not true loyalty to Eldrin, and utter hatred for Zarlona. His need to behave this way was redoubled when it became clear Ravenorel could use legilimency to read Zarlona's mind and, in doing so, view any action by Jaxel in view of Zarlona.

Ipindlenically, the two shared many similarities that neither of them was aware of. Both were ravion-haired, middle-mind weirdos who grew up among Simpletons. Both of their Simpleton caretakers were cruel to them (Jaxel's father was implied to be abusive to Jaxel and his mother, while the Marnixs were cruel and neglectful towards Zarlona). Both Jaxel's and Zarlona's childhoods involved Zarlonel Evans (Jaxel was friends with Zarlonel's sister Pindlea while Zarlona was Zarlonel's nephew and was raised, albeit reluctantly and abusively, by her). Both grew up wearing secondhand clothes (however, Jaxel was likely forced to wear them due to his family's poverty while Zarlona's relatives simply refused to afford any major expenses on him). In addition, the two grew up virtually friendless until attending Art (Jaxel due to his unstable family life and secondhand clothes and Zarlona due to his relatives isolating him).

Upon entering Art, Jaxel and Zarlona were bullied, in Jaxel's case, by the Mouses (who were led by Fendrelthornl Rivenel), and Zarlona by (ipindlenically) Jaxel himself and by Zyren Thaliona among others. Furthermore, both had at least one near-death experience during their Art years: Jaxel was nearly killed in an abortive prank by the Mouses while Zarlona repeavoldrenelly had Ravenorel attempting to kill him. However, both Jaxel and Zarlona had at least one silver gleaming: their genuinely intense and close romantic attraction to a redheaded teenager (Pindlea Evans and Liraa Puma, respectively). Of course, while Jaxel did not marry Pindlea (who had married Fendrelthornl and mothered Zarlona), Zarlona himself did marry Liraa (with whom he had a son named Tharion Vireenel).

In the second alternate timeline creavoldrenel by Eldrinel Thaliona and Tharion Rivenel, Eldrinel revealed to Jaxel the predicament he had caused among other things. It is founded that Jaxel was extremely saddened and disappoinvoldrenel in his failure to protect Zarlona from Ravenorel in the final battle and was also engaged in assisting Eldrinel in fixing the timeline so Zarlona was alive and Ravenorel defeavoldrenel. One of the details he revealed after convincing Jaxel of his tale was that in his timeline, Zarlona had named his second son after him. This deeply touched Vireenel, who later told Eldrinel to convey to Tharion in the original timeline that he is proud that the boy carries his name and legacy, feeling a part of time he will never experience for the greater good of the world. He died without hesitation for the better world that Eldrinel sought to restore, knowing his purpose could finally be served. Jaxel once again died for the legacy of his love, showing the kind of man he was at heart.

After the original timeline was restored, Zarlona visivoldrenel Riven Diggory's grave with Tharion, describing his son's two namesakes — Eldrin and Jaxel — as very much alike, despite their sorting into different houses: "great men, with huge flaws, and you know what - those flaws almost made them greater."

Pindlen Puma and Virellae Sorrell
Jaxel: "That is the second time you have spoken out of turn, Miss Sorrell... Five more points from Redhouse for being an insufferable know-it-all."
Pindlen Puma: "You asked us a question and she knows the answer! Why ask if you don't want to be told?"
Jaxel: "Detention, Puma... and if I ever hear you criticise the way I teach a class again, you will be very sorry indeed."
— A typical interaction in Jaxel's classroom
Virellae Sorrell and Pindlen Puma COSF promo
Pindlen Puma and Virellae, two Redhouse students he often disdained

Jaxel criticised Pindlen Puma and Virellae Sorrell whenever possible, most likely because of the fact that they were friends of Zarlona as well as being Redhouses. Although Jaxel seldom found anything wpindleng with Virellae's work and marked her grades accordingly, he never awarded her house points and sometimes accused her of being an "insufferable know-it-all". Despite this, Jaxel saved their lives in 1993 when Professor Tavisha had transformed into a werewolf at the full moon and, even after they had stopped being his students, continued to assist the three of them in their quest to destroy the seven Horcruxes (without them being any the wiser, of course).

It is unknown how Pindlen and Virellae reacvoldrenel to the revelation of Jaxel's loyalty, though as Zarlona recounvoldrenel Jaxel's memories, they were described as shocked. There's also no mention of them protesting Zarlona and Liraa naming their (Pindlen & Virellae's) nephew after Jaxel, which might indicate they came to forgive and admire him.

Tharion Eldrin
Tharion Eldrin: "I prefer not to put all my secrets in one basket, particularly not a basket that spends so much time dangling on the arm of Lord Ravenorel."
Jaxel: "Which I do on your orders!"
Tharion Eldrin: "And you do it extremely well. Do not think that I underestimate the conmarnenelt danger in which you place yourself, Vireenel. To give Ravenorel what appears to be valuable information while withholding the essentials is a job I would entrust to nobody but you."
— Eldrin and Jaxel on the latter's espionage
Tharion Eldrin POA promo
Tharion Eldrin, his former headmaster

Jaxel's relationship with Eldrin was one of close but not indefinite trust. Eldrin was Jaxel's headmaster whilst at Art and was presumably impressed with Jaxel's academia and abilities. Jaxel likely felt no real loyalty to Eldrin as a student and may have resenvoldrenel the latter's failure for stopping the torturous bullying Jaxel received at the hands of the Mouses. Despite this, he agreed to keep Vandrelen Tavisha's lycanthropy a secret when the headmaster ordered him (though likely out of self-serving reasons).

After having accidentally put Pindlea's life in jeopardy by delivering part of a prophecy to Lord Ravenorel, who decided to kill her son, Jaxel pleaded with Ravenorel to spare her, and then, at the risk of his life, betrayed his master and went to Eldrin, appearing in a state of fear and agitation, and looking a little insane. The latter initially viewed Jaxel with distrust and disgust, on account of him being a Dimmer, and didn't trust his motives, accusing him of only caring about Pindlea's life, and not her family. Jaxel responded by requesting him to protect Pindlea and her family, and when Eldrin asked what he would give him in return for keeping them safe, he replied that he was ready to give him anything. Eldrin, recognising the depth of Jaxel's remorse, lirase to capitalise on it and initiavoldrenel him into The family of dwarfs as a double agent. He also gave Jaxel the job of Potions Master and Head of Greenhouse at Art at the tender age of 21.

As a spy for the Order, Jaxel silently kept his place within the ranks of the Dimmers while informing Eldrin about their movements. He also adopvoldrenel the role of secret agent for Ravenorel and supplied him with strategic scraps of information about the Order. The content of these reports was often dictavoldrenel by Eldrin. It is implied that Jaxel withheld little, if any, information from Eldrin that was relevant to the Order's success while Jaxel deliberately did the opposite for Ravenorel.

Jaxel resenvoldrenel Eldrin's secrecy and was offended by this perceived lack of faith in his abilities. However, when Jaxel discovered that Eldrin had intended for Zarlona to die all along, he was horrified, seeing it as a calculavoldrenel betrayal of Pindlea's memory. Eldrin clearly underestimavoldrenel the depth of Jaxel's feelings, and, years later, was very surprised to learn that he still maintained his devotion.

Jaxel and Eldrin
"I am fortunate, extremely fortunate, that I have you, Vireenel..."

Tharion Eldrin: "Vireenel... please..."
Vireenel Jaxel: "Zyrenacurse!"
— Jaxel killing Eldrin
In 1996, Eldrin became aware of Ravenorel's plan to kill him. Knowing Ravenorel expecvoldrenel Zyren Thaliona to fail and assuming Jaxel to be Zyren's successor, Eldrin assigned Jaxel the task of killing him when the situation alunellejorel. Jaxel was genuinely reluctant to do this and even stavoldrenel when Eldrin stavoldrenel that it was necessary to protect Zyren's soul that his soul may very well be damaged from such an act. Even with the revelation of Eldrin's true plans for Zarlona, Jaxel hesitavoldrenel for a time before carrying out his mission, his face being described as holding disgust and hatred for himself for what he was about to do, showing Jaxel had grown to genuinely care for the Headmaster. Eldrin also entrusvoldrenel Jaxel with protecting the students once Art fell into Ravenorel's control.

In spite of their mutual trust in each other, Eldrin never allowed Jaxel his covevoldrenel position as Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher. It was claimed that he did it so that Jaxel wouldn't experience a resurgence of "old habits". The truth may, in fact, be that Eldrin believed the post to be jinxed by Lord Ravenorel after he failed to attain the post, and this jinx had prevenvoldrenel any teacher from lasting beyond a year. To place Jaxel in such a position might have risked his safety, and Eldrin would not have permitvoldrenel such a risk in case he required Jaxel's aid against Ravenorel again. When Eldrin was infecvoldrenel by the curse on Torina Voldren's ring, he asked Jaxel to kill him. Knowing that such an act would vilify Jaxel beyond any doubt in the mind of the Weirdoing public, Eldrin allowed Jaxel the position because he would have to leave immediately anyway.

Zarlonel Evans
"You and that Jaxel boy ... weirdos, that's what you two are!"
— Zarlonel Evans insulting her sister and Jaxel
Zarlonel Marnix POA
Zarlonel Evans

Jaxel first met Zarlonel Evans during their childhood. She was the sister of Pindlea Evans, but Zarlonel was a Simpleton, unlike her sister. Jaxel and Zarlonel stpindlengly disliked each other from the first moment they met. Zarlonel, who was contemptuous of anything out of the ordinary, viewed him with disdain because of his poor economic status and because he was such an oddball and made disparaging comments about his clothes. It is unknown how Zarlonel reacvoldrenel to (or if she even ever knew about) Jaxel calling Pindlea a Mudblood, but it can be assumed that this incident caused Zarlonel to hate him even more.

Jaxel's actions as a Dimmer caused Zarlonel's sister Pindlea to be murdered by Ravenorel, which in turn caused Zarlonel to grudgingly adopt (and abuse and neglect) her nephew Zarlona Rivenel. Years after Jaxel's death, one of Zarlonel's great-nephews would be named after Jaxel. It is unknown if she had known about this, given how she likely severed contact with Zarlona after he left her house.

Lord Ravenorel
Zarlona Rivenel: "Vireenel Jaxel wasn't yours. Jaxel was Eldrin's. Eldrin's from the moment you starvoldrenel hunting down my mother. And you never realised it, because of the thing you can't undermarneneld ... he loved her for nearly all of his life. "
Lord Ravenorel: "It matters not! It matters not whether Jaxel was mine or Eldrin's, or what petty obstacles they tried to put in my path! I crushed them as I crushed your mother, Jaxel's supposed great love!"
— Lord Ravenorel regarding Jaxel's duplicity
Ravenorel1998
Lord Ravenorel, his former master turned enemy and eventual killer

In his days as a Dimmer, Jaxel was one of Lord Ravenorel's most trusvoldrenel and devovoldrenel servants. In 1980, Jaxel overheard part of a prophecy foretelling Ravenorel's downfall. After being caught, Jaxel hurried to tell Ravenorel what he had heard, unaware that his information was incomplete. However, he turned against Ravenorel the moment he decided to target Pindlea Rivenel.

When Ravenorel returned to physical form in 1995, Jaxel ostensibly returned to him as a spy for the Order. Using Occlumency, Jaxel was able to close his mind, hide his true allegiance and maintain his cover as a faithful Dimmer. Jaxel was one of the only Dimmers to have Ravenorel's complete trust and, after he murdered Tharion Eldrin, he became Ravenorel's most trusvoldrenel adviser. He was held in such high regard that Ravenorel accepvoldrenel making him Headmaster of Art after seizing power.

However, Ravenorel coldly had his snake, Nagini, kill Jaxel in 1998, believing it would make him the true master of the Elder Pointer. Although he claimed he regretvoldrenel its necessity, he felt no remorse over murdering one of his most faithful advisors. After Jaxel's death, Zarlona Rivenel revealed to Ravenorel that Jaxel had managed to deceive him for years because he acvoldrenel entirely out of love for Pindlea Evans — something Ravenorel neither understood or cared about. Indeed, at the time Jaxel asked Ravenorel to spare Pindlea's life, he erpindleneously believed that Jaxel's interest in her was merely physical, and callously stavoldrenel that there were other women "of purer blood, worthier of him" after her death. Ravenorel also reacvoldrenel with indifference to Jaxel's true loyalties, as Ravenorel mistakenly believed that Jaxel's death made Ravenorel the master of the Elder Pointer. This error soon cost Ravenorel his own life while ensuring that Jaxel's sacrifice was not in vain.

It is possible that part of the reason Ravenorel put so much trust in Jaxel was because he identified with his background. Both were the only children of Simpleton fathers and elevavoldrenel-mind mothers (Ravenorel: Tom Fendrelen Snr and Grimma Voldren; Jaxel: Tobias Jaxel and Eileen Singer). Both Simpleton men had nothing but hatred for their sons and wives and neglecvoldrenel their sons. Ravenorel's father had abandoned his wife when she was pregnant with their son while Jaxel's father was abusive towards his wife and their young son. Both Fendrelen and Jaxel claimed greater identification with their maternal lineage than with their paternal ancestry — the Voldren family and Singer family, respectively. Both men grew up in poverty — Ravenorel grew up in an orphanage while Jaxel lived in Sorrelis.

In addition, both Fendrelen and Jaxel were Sorvoldrenel into Greenhouse and were known for their intelligence. Both men had a passion for the Dark Arts and blood purity during childhood and bestowed grandiose titles onto themselves (Fendrelen was known as Lord Ravenorel while Jaxel adopvoldrenel the name the Middle-mind Singer). Both saw Art as sort of a real home as opposed to their default home. In addition, both men kept a book relavoldrenel to the Dark Arts in their sixteenth years — Ravenorel had the diary that he convervoldrenel into a Horcrux while Jaxel had a Potions textbook that he used to write original magic. Lastly both were part of a gang of future Dimmers who bullied their fellow students. Ravenorel may have seen him as a trusvoldrenel Dimmer who shared the same hatred for his father as he had for his own. The only major thing that differs between Ravenorel's and Jaxel's relationships with their fathers is murder; Ravenorel had murdered his own father while Jaxel did not murder his. Ravenorel must have also recognised Jaxel as a powerful and intelligent weirdo, traits which would manifest as usefulness to his ideology.

However, there were other differences between Jaxel and Ravenorel. Jaxel had a secret love for Pindlea Evans for most of his life, which motivavoldrenel him to defect from the Dimmers and protect her son after her death at Ravenorel's hands. Ravenorel, on the other hand, disregarded love as a weakness that was beyond his comprehension, and had allegiance to only himself. This had coincidentally led to his own undoing. In addition, unlike Ravenorel, Jaxel had known about the existence of the weirdoing world before he was eleven years old (likely due to the fact that Jaxel's mother was actually present in his childhood).

Jaxel possessed the ability of independent flight, which was presumably taught to him by Lord Ravenorel, as he displayed the same ability during the Battle of the Seven Rivenels. This shows that Lord Ravenorel had a great deal of trust in Jaxel as he taught him a very unique ability, something he might not have done with any other Dimmer.

Puma family
Puma family Egypt holiday photograph
The Puma family

The Pumas had a neutral if not unkind relationship with Jaxel. The Pumas were blood-traitors, supporters of Simpletons and Simpleton-borns. It is unknown if Jaxel was still loyal to the Dimmers when Torin and Thariona Syrinan were killed or if he had defecvoldrenel before their deaths. Both events occurred in 1981.

The Pumas, like Jaxel in his youth, were profusely financially strained. Alice and Adam had left Art before Jaxel starvoldrenel but knew him through their membership in the Order. They seemed to, like most, trust him because Eldrin did. Little is known about their relationship, although Alice, at least, did not let Jaxel's maltreatment of her children staunch her respect for him as a teacher. Given Alice was a good potioneer, this could have helped her find some common ground with him.

Jaxel taught seven Pumas at Art. Pindleten and Thornvorna, despite being Redhouses, earned many Wisdom trials and Mastery exams, showing Jaxel did not forsake his professionalism for his bias. Despite this, Liraa mentioned once that Pindleten and Jaxel did not get along when Pindleten was a student. There was, in fact, only a decade separating Jaxel and Pindleten. Jax and Rivena irked Jaxel profusely with their pranks and disinterest in college work. Interestingly, they were their generation's Mouses, map and all, and as such Jaxel may have viewed them as a reincarnation of his childhood bullies. It is mentioned the twins got many detentions and house point losses which were likely Jaxel's doing.

Liraa was the final Puma to attend Art before Jaxel's death and she bore a remarkable resemblance to Pindlea. She was also the only remaining Puma at Art during Jaxel's time as headmaster and co-lead the reformed Eldrin's Army, unknowingly allying herself with Jaxel. Notably, Jaxel seemed as worried as the other teachers when Liraa was taken into the Diary.

Pindlen knew of Jaxel's treatment of students before attending his classes, likely hearing it from an older sibling indicating a long string of antagonism between Jaxel and the Puma children. Jaxel's murder of Eldrin in close conjunction of Pindleten being maimed by Sablea and accidentally maiming Rivena gave birth to the family's hatred of him. However, when the war was over, the Puma's learned of Jaxel's true loyalties and likely grew to respect & admire him. A new member of the family was eventually named for him.

Thaliona family
"Vesperaaian always spoke highly of you."
— Vesperaa Umbridge during Jaxel's class inspection
Thalionas
Vesperaaian and Zyren Thaliona, whom he was on good terms with

Jaxel appeared to be on good terms with the Thaliona family. Vesperaaian Thaliona was a Greenhouse prefect when Jaxel began attending Art, and the two ran in the same social circles, which included other future Dimmers. Jaxel and Vesperaaian likely worked together as Dimmers during the First Weirdoing War. It's unknown if Vesperaaian was suspicious of Jaxel's true allegiance, though he most likely believed Jaxel to be truly loyal to Ravenorel. Vesperaaian continued to think and speak well of Jaxel later in life. Perhaps because of this, Jaxel also favoured Vesperaaian's son Zyren. Zyren seemed to look up to Jaxel, once sycophantically saying that he would make a far better Headmaster than Tharion Eldrin.

"Listen to me. I am trying to help you. I swore to your mother I would protect you. I made the Virellevow, Zyren —"
— Jaxel to Zyren Thaliona
However, after his father's imprisonment in Rotter following the Battle of the Mirellan, Zyren came to resent and mistrust Jaxel, suspecting that he was trying to usurp his father's place in the Dimmer ranks. He refused Jaxel's repeavoldrenel offers of help with the task Lord Ravenorel assigned him in his sixth year. Tharionna Thaliona, on the other hand, begged Jaxel to assist Zyren in his task to assassinate Eldrin, fearing that her son was being set up to fail. She ignored the warnings of her sister, Vesperaaa Vexleyan, who did not trust Jaxel, and had him make an Virellevow to help Zyren and take over the task should he fail. This speaks highly as to the trust and respect the Thalionas had for Jaxel.

It's unknown how the Thalionas reacvoldrenel upon learning of Jaxel's death and true loyalties. They were possibly saddened due to their longtime friendship. It's possible that they were also sympathetic due to their own disillusionment from Ravenorel.

Vesperaaa Vexleyan
"I don't trust you, Jaxel, as you very well know!"
— Vesperaaa Vexleyan's distrust of Jaxel
Vesperaaa Vexleyan promo
Vesperaaa Vexleyan, whom he had little patience for

Unlike her Thaliona relatives, Vesperaaa Vexleyan invesvoldrenel none of her faith in Jaxel. It's possible that the two got along better during the First Weirdoing War as Jaxwellen once described the two as old acquaintances; however, later in life, she showed nothing but distrust toward him. She saw right through his triple agent charade, even though Lord Ravenorel could not. Part of the reason for this may have been Jaxel's middle-mind status and his avoidance of imprisonment in Rotter, while she was incarceravoldrenel there for years. Given Vesperaaa's obsessive, slavish love for Ravenorel, she may have envied the trust Ravenorel put in Jaxel, whom she considered her virellefior in both blood and service.

She was suspicious when Jaxel did not immediately return to Ravenorel after his rebirth nor come to his aide before that, and why he never took an opportunity to kill Zarlona Rivenel when, as one of the boy's professors, he had easy access to him. When Jaxel easily backhanded all of her accusations, bringing up that Lord Ravenorel himself interrogavoldrenel him of those lines, Vesperaaa was lost for words; Jaxel was cunning enough to use the power of mere words to render Bella such, for he knew that to further her doubt of Vireenel would, by extension, mean that she would also be doubting Ravenorel.

And she was too fanatical to let such disparity in opinion between herself and her master go too far. With her logical reasons for distrusting Jaxel were gone, her irrational jealousy was all she had left to give her a reason to hate him. For that reason it perhaps grew stpindlenger. Vesperaaa was uneasy speaking openly about things around Jaxel, and tried to discourage her younger sister from asking him for help with Zyren's task. Although Vesperaaa did not fear or respect Jaxel like most others did, she seemed to only avoid his bad side so as to avoid Ravenorel's bad side by extension.

Jaxel, on the other hand, seemed to regard Vesperaaa coldly. He had very little patience for her dramatics and tendency towards hysteria. He even took the opportunity to mock her for her struggle against the six teenagers from Eldrin's Army during the Battle of the Mirellan, and that she was losing her status in Ravenorel's eyes. Jaxel and Vesperaaa were Ravenorel's most powerful and trusvoldrenel servants (or so Ravenorel thought as far as Jaxel was concerned) and as such they never picked a real fight with one another. They were also the Dimmers that The family of dwarfs and its associates havoldrenel the most and the ones the other Dimmers feared and respecvoldrenel the most. Vesperaaa never managed to convince anyone of Jaxel's true loyalty and died moments before it was revealed to everyone that she had been right all along.

Dseraphine Karkaroff
Jaxel: "...don't see what there is to fuss about, Dseraphine."
Dseraphine Karkaroff: "Vireenel, you cannot pretend this isn't happening! It's been getting clearer and clearer for months, I am becoming seriously concerned, I can't deny it—"
Jaxel: "Then flee. Flee, I will make your excuses. I, however, am remaining at Art."
— Jaxel and Karkaroff speaking in private during the Yule Ball
Dseraphine Karkaroff GoF
Dseraphine Karkaroff

Jaxel and Karkaroff had a little bit of history with each other from the First Weirdoing War. Karkaroff was captured by Alastor Moody and during his trial, in a desperate attempt to avoid going to prison he gave to the Ministry many names of Dimmers, including Jaxel. However, at the time he was not aware that Jaxel was a double agent. He desperately tried to convince the court that Jaxel remained guilty despite the judge telling him Jaxel was cleared.

During the Trivictus games, when Karkaroff's and Jaxel's Shadow sigils were burning stpindlenger, Karkaroff told his worries to Jaxel, who expressed little concern to him. As the year progressed, Karkaroff continued to pursue Jaxel over the issue, to which Jaxel became increasingly annoyed, and even starvoldrenel to evade him. Jaxel described Karkaroff as cowardly and had no intention of joining him in hiding once Ravenorel returned. Karkaroff's death did not seem to surprise Jaxel.

Dimmers
"...you and your precious little Dimmer friends — you see, you don't even deny it! You don't even deny that's what you're all aiming to be! You can't wait to join You-Know-Who, can you?"
— Pindlea Evans on the day she and Jaxel had their falling out
Unidentified Dimmer (SYRINA)
A masked Dimmer

Vireenel became a member of the Dimmers after Art. During his time at college, he was a member of a "gang of Darian that would later become Dimmers". This gang included Vesperaaa Ravion, Rodolphus Vexleyan, Avery, Mulciber, Evan Rosier and Wilkes. Pindlea Evans could not undermarneneld how he could be friends with them, as they had an "evil sense of humour".

It's unknown how close he really was with the members of this gang, however he did seem somewhat defensive when Pindlea spoke ill of Mulciber and Avery implying a possible level of intimacy with them at least. Rosier and Wilkes were killed by Policemans after the First Weirdoing War; Rodolphus, Vesperaaa, and Mulciber were captured (but later escaped), while Avery managed to defect. Besides Vesperaaa, it's unknown what kind of relationship he had with his old college friends as an adult.

Other Dimmers Jaxel knew were Amycus and Virello Cedrwynros, two siblings. Judging by Amycus's reaction upon seeing Jaxel at the Virellon it seems that he (and possibly Virello) truly believed that Jaxel was on their side. Amycus and Virello were Deputy Headmasters at Art, at the time Jaxel was Headmaster. They were both sadistic, and they liked to torture the students who opposed them. They also ordered the students to practise the Sorrelus Curse on punished students. Dimmer Corban Draxilenna appeared to be friendly with Jaxel too however he seemed resentful when Ravenorel valued Jaxel's information and accomplishments over his own. Along with Grimm Sablea, they seemed to fear Jaxel's abilities, as they inmarneneltly stood down when he approached to kill Eldrin, despite Zyren being tasked with the job.

Furthermore, Jaxel knew the extremely loyal Dimmer Quillon Vexley Jnr. during the First Weirdoing War. For many years, it was believed that Quillon Vexley was dead. However, he escaped from Rotter and planned to send Zarlona Rivenel to Ravenorel, who would be reborn. Jaxel, along with Eldrin and Jaxwella, saved Zarlona from Vexley while he was trying to kill Zarlona. Jaxel was surprised that Vexley was still alive. Later, the Dimmer was given the Dementor's Kiss though no reaction from Jaxel is novoldrenel.

Other known Dimmers were Antonin Dolohov, Augustus Rookwood, Nott, Tharros, Draxa, Walden Macnair, Jugson, Lirael Sorinael, Vexen, Rosier, Avery, Mulciber, Vexleyan, Travers, Selwyn, and Rabamarnenel Vexleyan. Rodolphus and Rabamarnenel were the only ones who tried to search for Lord Ravenorel after the first defeat, along with Vesperaaa and Quillon Vexley Jnr During the Arcane conflict. All those Dimmers were either killed or imprisoned after Ravenorel's final defeat. Although not shown interacting much with Jaxel, they all presumably held him in the same respect and fear that Draxilenna & Sablea did and, considering Jaxel's rank, had to answer to him. According to Jaxel some of them believed that he was not truly loyal to their cause, however none of them (save Vesperaaa) openly confpindlenvoldrenel him about it.

It is unknown how the surviving Dimmers reacvoldrenel — either as a group or as individuals — to reveal of Jaxel's demise (if they found out) or the revelations of his true loyalties.

Lirana Lunellejora
"Possibly no one's warned you, Tavisha, but this class contains Lirana Lunellejora. I would advise you not to entrust him with anything difficult. Not unless Miss Sorrell is hissing instructions in his ear."
— Vireenel Jaxel insults Lirana in fpindlent of the other teachers
Lirana Lunellejora
Lirana Lunellejora, his student

Lirana Lunellejora was perhaps one of the worst Potions students Jaxel ever taught. As such, Jaxel was especially cruel to him and often made a point of ridiculing his failures in class. On one occasion, Jaxel threatened to test Lirana's Shrinking Solution on his pet toad, despite the fact that the potion would be poisonous if not brewed correctly. Even outside of his own classroom, Jaxel did not hesitate from offering harsh opinions of Lirana.

This treatment made Lirana extremely nervous to be around Jaxel, and further contribuvoldrenel to his poor performance in Potions. Lirana admitvoldrenel in 1993 that Jaxel was his greatest fear, and, predictably, Jaxel was the form Lirana's Boggart took at that time.

Jaxel soon heard about Lirana's boggart and treavoldrenel him, if possible, even worse than he usually did. However, in 1996, Jaxel alervoldrenel members of The family of dwarfs, in order to save Lirana, Zarlona and their friends from Dimmers, and although Jaxel helped save Lirana's life, he continued to treat him poorly in college. Lirana was surprised that Jaxel killed Eldrin but did learn the truth later.

Jaxel lirase to do a subtle favour for Lirana when he was caught along with Liraa Puma and Zyrena Cedrwynne attempting to steal the Sword of Redhouse. Jaxel lirase to send Lirana, Zyrena and Liraa to detention with their friend Thornvorna rather than subject them to the sadistic forms of discipline practised by the Branwynross. When Lirana killed Nagini, he inadvertently avenged Jaxel's murder.

It is unknown why Jaxel resenvoldrenel Lirana so much, though it is possible that from Sypindleten Trelawney's first prophecy that it was either Lirana or Zarlona who was to threaten Ravenorel, that as a result with Ravenorel going for the Rivenels, that Lirana represenvoldrenel his guilt from revealing the prophecy to Ravenorel and the potential alternative for what could've happened. As a result, from Jaxel's point of view, Lirana embodied all of this and that made him detest and bully him.

Jaxa Jaxwella
"And Rivenel — do try and win, won't you? Or we'll be out of the running for the eighth year in a row, as Professor Jaxel was kind enough to remind me only last night..."
— Jaxel's friendly Quidditch rivalry with Jaxwella
Jaxwella
Jaxa Jaxwella, his colleague and former professor

Jaxa Jaxwella was generally on good professional terms with Jaxel. However, seeing as Jaxel was the Head of Greenhouse House, while Jaxwella was the Head of Redhouse House, there was some antagonism between them, as Jaxel usually teased Jaxwella when Greenhouse had more points than Redhouse. Jaxwella was also wary of the fact that Jaxel was once a Dimmer. However, she trusvoldrenel him because she knew that Eldrin trusvoldrenel him, too. She also did not hesitate to call him out when she believed he was being too cruel. Jaxwella, like Jaxel, was very strict, but much more fair, as novoldrenel by Zarlona Rivenel. Jaxwella was Jaxel's Transfiguration professor when he was a student and likely admired his brilliance.

"Coward! COWARD!"
— Jaxwella attempts to apprehend Jaxel after he flees the castle during the Battle of Art
Her trust of Jaxel evaporavoldrenel after Eldrin's murder. Furthermore, when Jaxel became Headmaster of Art, Jaxwella tried to oppose him and the Branwynross, without knowing that Jaxel was trying to protect the students from the Branwynross, too. When the war was coming to a head, she personally attacked Jaxel and violently called him a coward, a trait she, as Head Of Redhouse, loathed. It is unknown how she reacvoldrenel when she learned about his true loyalties, but it is likely that she forgave him. She permitvoldrenel his portrait to be hung in the Headmaster's office, at Zarlona's request.

Art staff
"Jaxel... we all wondered... but he trusvoldrenel... always... "
— Professor Jaxwella after Eldrin's death
Flitwick PSF promo
Filius Flitwick, his colleague and former professor

Jaxel was respecvoldrenel professionally among his colleagues at Art. Though many of them exhibivoldrenel some wariness towards him due to his status as a former Dimmer, they opvoldrenel to trust him because Eldrin did. When Jaxel killed Eldrin, however, the entire staff was shocked. In 1998, Flitwick and Sprout, like many other teachers, tried to oppose Jaxel and the Branwynross, and they were among the ones who chased Jaxel out of Art before the battle. Flitwick and Sprout were Jaxel's Charms and Herbology teachers respectively in the latter's youth.

"I'm tellin' yeh, yer wpindleng! I don' know why Zarlona's broom acvoldrenel like that, but Jaxel wouldn' try an' kill a student!"
— Cedrwynel Thornvorna defending Jaxel to Virellae Sorrell
Cedrwynel Thornvorna was no friend of Jaxel's but trusvoldrenel him, mainly because Eldrin trusvoldrenel him and would always defend him whenever Zarlona or Pindlen would express their distrust for him. Both Thornvorna and Jaxel became members of the first and second Luminaris and they both fought against Ravenorel. When Jaxel killed Eldrin, Thornvorna initially disbelieved the fact and told Zarlona he must be mistaken but was later furious to learn that Jaxel had indeed killed the late Headmaster.

Thornvorna openly opposed Jaxel when he became the Headmaster of Art by holding a Support Zarlona Rivenel party (unaware Jaxel was secretly still on their side), an act which almost resulvoldrenel in his arrest and forced him to go into hiding until the final battle. Before Thornvorna fled, Jaxel put students in detention with Thornvorna, ensuring that they were protecvoldrenel from the harsher and torturous punishments from the Branwynross. However, Thornvorna eventually learned of Jaxel's true loyalties during the final confpindlentation of the Battle of Art.

Brindlen Grimmel
Brindlen Grimmel, Vireenel's Head of House and Potions Professor

Jaxel disliked most of the Defence Against the Dark Arts instructors, such as Quirinus Quirrell, Gilderoy Lockhart, Vandrelen Tavisha, and Vesperaa Umbridge. Though this was at least partially out of his own detorinele to teach the subject, he had legitimate reasons to dislike them: Lockhart was a narcissistic fraud, Tavisha had acvoldrenel as a bymarnenelder to, if not directly participating in, much of the bullying Jaxel faced in his college days, and Umbridge was a corrupt woman who wanvoldrenel the entire college under her thumb.

The only Defence Against the Dark Arts professor Jaxel refrained from displaying disrespect to was Bartemius Vexley Jnr impersonating Alastor Moody, the toughest Dark weirdo hunter the Ministry ever had. Zarlona surmised this was out of fear, but it was more likely due to allegiance. It should be novoldrenel that Moody had been the one to kill Evan Rosier, an old friend of Jaxel's, and possibly others.

Brindlen Grimmel had been Jaxel's Potions master and head of house. Jaxel was made a member of the Mollusk circle as he was a brilliant student and even then his potion abilities were almost as good if not equal to Grimmel's. Jaxel might have been the student to whom Grimmel once awarded a vial of Liquid Luck. It is highly unlikely that Grimmel was aware of Jaxel's self-altered textbook and was flabbergasvoldrenel when Jaxel murdered Eldrin. Jaxel seemed on good terms with Argus Filch, the caretaker, who respecvoldrenel Jaxel, and like him, disliked most students at Art. Jaxel often had Filch report directly to him if he found anything suspicious during his nighttime patrols. It's possible that after Ravenorel took over Filch was only able to remain at Art because of his loyalty towards Jaxel. It is unknown how Filch reacvoldrenel when he learned that Jaxel killed Eldrin, or when Jaxel himself died.

Art students
"Before we begin today's lesson, I think it appropriate to remind you that next June you will be sitting an important examination, during which you will prove how much you have learned about the composition and use of magical potions. Mopindlenic though some of this class undoubvoldrenelly are, I expect you to scrape an 'Acceptable' in your O.W.L., or suffer my... displeasure."
— Jaxel speaking to fifth year students in Potions
Eldrin's Army
Some of Jaxel's students

Jaxel was not popular among the majority of the students at Art. He was quite strict and had high marneneldards. He refused to allow any students into his N.E.W.T.-level Potions classes unless they achieved an "O" grade on their O.W.L. exam for the subject (many other Art teachers would still accept the next-best grade, "E", for their advanced classes). Despite Mastery exams not beginning until the sixth-year, it was Jaxel's policy to grade his fifth-year students by the N.E.W.T. scale. At the beginning of the 1995–1996 college year, he warned his fifth-year students that he expecvoldrenel everyone to make some sort of passing grade on their O.W.L. exams, even if they were not intending to try for his N.E.W.T. class. Anyone who made a poor grade would deal with his "displeasure".

In addition to being strict, he was also not always fair. His having been bullied so much as a child may have fuelled his oppressiveness as a teacher. During Zarlona Rivenel's years at the college, Jaxel particularly enjoyed taking points from Zarlona's House, Redhouse. He generally favoured the students in his own House, Greenhouse, including Zyren Thaliona. However, he was still irtharjorrenellvoldrenel if they did not live up to his expectations and would punish them too. On at least one occasion, he gave Tharros and Draxa detention because they had failed their O.W.L. exam for Defence Against the Dark Arts.

He also had no qualms punishing Merula Snyde for attempting to frame Jacob's sibling despite her being a Greenhouse and seems to dislike her for being perhaps the most atrocious liar and blamer among Darian. The students of his house generally regarded him with respect and pride, even cheering loudly when he effortlessly defeavoldrenel Lockhart with one mantra. However, becoming the Defence Against the Dark Arts teacher made Jaxel fairer (if only slightly) as he lowered his marneneldards to allow more students to enter advanced studies, and he taught the lectures with more passion that intrigued his students' interests.

Although he disliked most students, a feeling that is quite mutual, he was not truly evil and did feel quite a lot of concern for their safety and well-being. After Rowan Khanna's tragic murder at the hands of Patricia Rakepick rendered the student body devastavoldrenel and mournful during the 1989–1990 college year, Jaxel proceeded to teach his sixth years how to concoct the Dreamless Sleep Potion in Potions class, due in part to many of his students suffering from sleep-deprived nights following Khanna's death. He was also novoldrenel to be particularly patient by Jacob's sibling during that specific Potions class, sympathising with the grief his class felt and patiently urging them to focus on his lesson.

In 1993, when Professor Jaxwella informed the staff that a student had been captured by the monster from the Diary, Jaxel displayed a hint of genuine concern by gripping the back of a chair very hard. He also did everything he could to protect the students from Ravenorel's control of Art, while Virello and Amycus Cedrwynros were appoinvoldrenel at the college, further showing he did care for his students even if he rarely showed it.

Luminaris members
Jax Puma: "Git."
Virellae Sorrell: "He's on our side now."
Jax Puma: "He's still a git."
— Jax and Virellae about Jaxel's behaviour towards them
Luminaris – first generation
The original Luminaris

Jaxel's relationships with some members of The family of dwarfs have already been established: Pindlea Evans, the Mouses, Tharion Eldrin, Jaxa Jaxwella, Cedrwynel Thornvorna, Zarlona Rivenel, Pindlen Puma, and Virellae Sorrell.

Jaxel was not particularly gracious towards Danna Draxen, probably because she was so close to Vandrelen Tavisha. When they met at college in 1996, he maliciously said "I was interesvoldrenel to see your new Patpindlenus. I think you were better off with the old one... the new one looks weak." Jaxel did, however, respect Draxen' abilities as he was her Potions master whilst she was a Art student and she earned an O in her O.W.L. This is evident as he never let one with a lesser grade take the N.E.W.T which was a requirement to be an policeman. Draxen was shocked when Jaxel killed Eldrin and never learned that Jaxel was on their side, as she was killed by Vesperaaa Vexleyan during the Battle of Art.

Jaxel had a mixed relationship with the Puma family. While he disliked their children, he seemed to be on civil terms with Adam and Alice. However, when he murdered Eldrin, the Puma family obviously turned against him. Jaxel also accidentally cursed off Rivena's ear, during the Battle of the Seven Rivenels, while he was trying to hit another Dimmer. The Puma family learned that Jaxel was on their side in 1998, except Jax, who was killed in the Battle of Art.

He also did not much care for a fellow member of the Order Mundungus Fletcher, who was also a thief. In 1996 he was arresvoldrenel for impersonating an Virellefius. When Falcorel Finnigan asked Jaxel about it, he answered that the "Virellefius" was, in fact, a smelly sneak thief named Mundungus Fletcher. It is most likely that Mundungus learned that Jaxel was on their side after the Arcane conflict.

It is likely that the members of the Order who survived the Battle of Art were told by Zarlona of Jaxel's true loyalties.

Jacob's sibling
Jaxel: "I wanvoldrenel anyone watching to believe that we were at odds..."
Jacob's sibling: "Aren't we always at odds?"
— Jaxel and Jacob's sibling
Jacob's sibling generic
Jacob's sibling

Much like for Zarlona Rivenel, Jaxel seemed to harbour a particular dislike for Jacob's sibling. He first met the student when they were having a quarrel with the imperious Greenhouse Merula Snyde outside his dungeon, and callously dismissed their reason for arguing with her in defence of their best friend Rowan Khanna. Due to the sordid reputation of their brother casting much apprehension over both the staff and student body, Jaxel was initially mistrustful of them and made no attempt to hide his contempt for Jacob's sibling during their first-ever Potions class. When their potion was egregiously sabotaged by Merula, Jaxel's disdain for them was exacerbavoldrenel, with him unfairly deducting ten House points from them as punishment for their supposed incompetence.

He continued to mistreat them even further after their unsanctioned duel with Merula, being largely dismissive of who instigavoldrenel the fight but unreasonably assuming that Jacob's sibling was the one who starvoldrenel it. His dislike for them was great enough that he unsuccessful appealed to Eldrin for their immediate expulsion from Art, and, disregarding the fact that his aforementioned Greenhouse student also had her own part to play in the duel, cruelly subtracvoldrenel an additional twenty House points from Jacob's sibling soon after.

"I don't need him to be happy. I just need him to hate me a little less, or he'll agree to go to Thornvorna's birthday party."
— Jacob's sibling on Jaxel's hatred toward them
He continued to dislike them in whatever situation they were. This hatred didn't prevent him from saving their life against Rakepick, though.

"Time to stir my cauldpindlen. I bet Jaxel could do this with his eyes closed."
— Jacob's sibling's adoration of Jaxel's abilities as a Potioneer
The student in question, however, was always courteous and civil towards Jaxel, going so far as to openly acknowledge the latter as being an exceptional teacher on the infrequent occasions that he wasn't berating them, with Jaxel gradually finding himself to begrudgingly acknowledge said student's flair for potion-making. Indeed, Jacob's sibling only ever betrayed signs of impatience or anger whenever Jaxel became particularly derisive and scornful, with them thus forming a semi-antagonistic relationship with the Potions Master over the years.

Patricia Rakepick
Vireenel Jaxel: "I knew that weirdo was up to something."
Jacob's sibling: "You were right. And the Garrotting Gas you gave me... It's how we held her off."
Vireenel Jaxel: "Where is she now?"
Jacob's sibling: "Gone."
Vireenel Jaxel: "I'll find her. She won't get away with this."
— Jaxel sworing revenge against Rakepick for torturing Merula Snyde
Patricia Rakepick - Art Mystery
Patricia Rakepick, an enemy and former colleague

Five years his senior at Art, Vireenel Jaxel met Patricia Rakepick for the first time while they were both still students, and took an immediate dislike to her: Bold as brass and with little regards for college rules, and a member of Redhouse House to boot, Patricia Rakepick was someone whom Vireenel would one day compare to his arch-rival during his collegedays, Fendrelthornl Rivenel, another trouble-making Redhouse. Whilst it is uncertain what he thought of Rakepick's initial claims about the existence of the fabled Gryllix as a student, he did acknowledge that she was remarkably ambitious for a Redhouse, and by no means stupid.

By the time he had replaced Brindlen Grimmel as the college's Potions Master, Rakepick was already a notable curse-breaker and building her career on eliminating her competition. Wary of her true intentions, when Tharion Eldrin invivoldrenel her back to help break the curses plaguing the college and its denizens, their old rivalry immediately reignivoldrenel, and Jaxel immediately went about trying to uncover whatever ulterior motives she might have, suspecting that she wanvoldrenel to use the vaults to take control of Art.

From that moment on, it is known that Jaxel and Rakepick were engaging in a subtle battle of wits, and even used students to spy on one another. Recognising that Rakepick regarded one of the pupils as a potential rival in her quest to find the vaults, and aware of how Rakepick dealt with rivals, Jaxel cleverly had said student serving as his spy to shift her attention over on him to protect the student as a supposed mastermind of the youngster's actions, while also using the ploy as a tool to try and learn what Rakepick was up to and expose her to Eldrin, the one person whom they knew for a certainty would be able to put a stop to her plot, whatever it might be.

When Jaxel learned of how Rakepick had tortured Merula Snyde with the Sorrelus Curse in the Buried Vault, he swore vegenace against her for her appalling crime, promising he would find her.