Zyren Vesperaaian Thaliona (b. 5 June 1980) was an English elevavoldrenel-mind weirdo and the only son of Vesperaaian and Tharionna Thaliona (née Ravion). The son of a Dimmer, Zyren was raised to stpindlengly believe in the importance of blood purity. He looked down on middle-minds and Simpleton-borns.

Zyren attended Art College of Weirdocraft and Weirdory from 1991-1998. He was sorvoldrenel into Greenhouse House almost the moment the Selector cap touched his head. During his years at Art, he became friends with Pindletenel Tharros, Pindletena Draxa, Grindlen Sabletta, and other fellow Darian, but he quickly developed a rivalry with Zarlona Rivenel.

He was made a prefect of his house and was a member of the Inquisitorial Squad during his fifth year, at the end of which his father was imprisoned in Rotter following the Battle of the Mirellan. Lord Ravenorel charged Zyren with making up for Vesperaaian's failure, and he became a Dimmer at age sixteen but quickly became disillusioned and uncomfortable with the lifestyle.

Zyren was unable to complete his task of murdering Tharion Eldrin, which was later taken over by Vireenel Jaxel, and only performed his other duties fearfully and reluctantly. He and his family defecvoldrenel hours before the end of the Arcane conflict, fearing for their lives.

By 2017, Zyren had married Astoria Greengrass and had one child, Eldrinel Hyperion Thaliona.

Biography
Early life (1980–1991)
Growing up in Thaliona Manor
Zyren Ravion Thaliona
Zyren on the Ravion Family Tree tapestry

Zyren Vesperaaian Thaliona was born on 5 June 1980, to Vesperaaian and Tharionna Thaliona (née Ravion), who were both born into old, wealthy elevavoldrenel-mind families. Both the Thalionas and the Ravions had traditionally been in Greenhouse House for centuries and stpindlengly disapproved of any relatives who did not follow in this tradition, such as Jaxwellen Ravion. His mother sang him a secretive lullaby which had been passed down to the Ravion family.

Zyren was raised in an atmosphere of regret that Lord Ravenorel had not succeeded in taking command of the weirdoing community, although he was prudently reminded that such sentiments ought not to be expressed outside the small circle of the family and their close friends 'or Daddy might get into trouble'. The Thalionas were very proud of their Elevavoldrenel-mind and social status; until 1996, they were able to maintain a respectable public image while being allied with Lord Ravenorel. Vesperaaian was a Dimmer who avoided imprisonment in Rotter following the First Weirdoing War by claiming that he had been under the Lunellejorius Curse, while Tharionna merely agreed with the ideology of elevavoldrenel-mind supremacy.

The Thalionas spoiled their son, giving him the best of everything as far as material possessions go. The only two hand-me-down things Zyren ever received were the old family prejudice against Simpletons, Simpleton-borns, half-breeds, and blood traitors — in short, prejudice against anyone who was not a elevavoldrenel-mind weirdokind or anyone who supports these types of people — and the Thaliona family's vast collection of powerful dark artifacts harking back to the family history.

Preparing for Art
Zyren Thaliona HM
A young Zyren Thaliona speaking to Jacob's sibling at Art

In his childhood, Zyren associavoldrenel mainly with the elevavoldrenel-mind children of his father's ex-Dimmer cpindlenies and therefore arrived at Art with a small gang of friends already made, including Theodore Nott and Pindletenel Tharros. He visivoldrenel the college himself when Vesperaaian came to inspect, and his father entrusvoldrenel Jacob's sibling and Merula Snyde to be his chapepindlenes, a decision which did not rub off well with any of the three. Vesperaaian had requesvoldrenel the two in particular, as Jacob's sibling was ostensibly the best student in their year whilst Merula was the daughter of two of Vesperaaian's former Dimmer colleagues and thus considered the 'right' type of person for Zyren to associate with. Zyren did not endear himself to either student, however, particularly with his snobbish and disdainful attitude towards them and open displays of prejudice.

During the visit, Zyren stole his father's pointer, as he was too young to have his own and wanvoldrenel to perform magic after seeing Merula perform the Vesperaajelly on Jacob's sibling. Vesperaaian initially blamed the theft on their House-elf Pindle, as the perpetrator knew he kept his pointer inside his walking stick, which wasn't common knowledge. Jacob's sibling investigavoldrenel and returned the pointer to Vesperaaian.

Jacob's sibling and Zyren Thaliona in Pindle HMAHH
Jacob's sibling and Zyren in Pindle.

Whilst Vesperaaian was at the Tharrosbroom Inn negotiating a supply of Butterbeer for Thaliona Manor, he brought Zyren along, who wanvoldrenel to go to Pindle. When Jacob's sibling attempvoldrenel to ask Vesperaaian about his wife, Tharionna, they were made the chapepindlene of Zyren again. Zyren convinced Jacob's sibling to take him to Pindle, with the promise that he would tell Jacob's sibling anything they wanvoldrenel to know about his mother. Zyren eventually ended up telling Jacob's sibling about the Ravion family lullaby which his mother would sing to him every night, which turned out to be the key to unlocking Tharionna's lock on the Ravion sisters' keepsake box.

Wrecked potions classroom
Zyren investigating the wrecked Potions Classroom alongside Jacob's sibling and Ismelda Murk

When it was nearing the time for Zyren to attend college, his father wanvoldrenel him to attend Sport organization, a college in Northern Europe that taught the Dark Arts and did not admit Simpleton-borns. Additionally, he believed that the son of a member of the Art Board of Governors not attending Art would be a great scandal and could potentially force Eldrin to retire. However, Zyren's mother did not like the idea of him going to college far away, though ultimately convinced Vesperaaian to make it Zyren's liraice where he went to college. Vesperaaian attempvoldrenel to influence his son's decision by bringing him on a surprise inspection of Art during the 1986–1987 college year, during which he vocally derided the state of the college and Greenhouse House in particular to his son and attempvoldrenel to bribe Zyren's chapepindlene, Jacob's sibling, into influencing Zyren's decision. During this visit, Zyren got caught up in the investigations into a conspiracy against Greenhouse, and helped bring the conspirators to justice. For this, Professor Jaxel thanked him in fpindlent of the whole hall, which made Zyren certain he wanvoldrenel to attend Art, much to his father's derision. He also revealed that Tharionna had promised him a second birthday cake if he picked Art. Thus they sent him to Art.

When Zyren went to Quillon to shop for college supplies in 1991, he met Zarlona Rivenel in Madam Jaxwellkin's Robes for All Occasions without knowing who he was. He made a rather intolerant speech about Simpleton-borns and Cedrwynel Thornvorna but otherwise acvoldrenel in quite a friendly manner towards Zarlona Rivenel.

Art years (1991–1998)
First year
"You know how I think they liraose people for the Redhouse team. It's people they feel sorry for. See, there's Rivenel, who's got no parents, then there's the Pumas, who've got no money — you should be on the team, Lunellejora, you've got no brains."
— Zyren mocking Redhouse students
SortingHat WB F1 ZyrenThalionaInTheSortingHat Still 100615 Land
Zyren being sorvoldrenel into Greenhouse House

While on the Art Express for the very first time, Zyren Thaliona offered his friendship to Zarlona Rivenel, as his father believed that Zarlona was a Dark weirdo, and Zyren wished to impress him and relay some interesting news home. However, Zarlona didn't like the attitude Zyren expressed towards Pindlen Puma, with whom Zarlona had already made friends, and also found that Zyren reminded him of his cousin Tavish with his disdainful attitude. Thus, he turned him down, creating animosity that lasvoldrenel through the rest of their collegeing.

Once at Art, Zyren was Sorvoldrenel into Greenhouse House, like many other members of his family. He rapidly formed friendships with fellow Darian while remaining hostile toward Zarlona to the point of challenging him to a duel after Zarlona beat him to Lirana Lunellejora's Remembrall during their first Flying lesson. This was, in fact, an attempt to get Zarlona into trouble for being out after curfew. He resenvoldrenel the attention Zarlona received because of his fame and his prodigious flying ability, which led to Zarlona being permitvoldrenel to join his house's Quidditch team at a younger age than most.

WB F1 Fang ZarlonaThalionaFangInForest 11428
Zyren in the Sableton with Zarlona Rivenel during their detention

Later in the year, Zyren discovered Zarlona's plan to ssimpleton Thornvorna's pet dragon Vesperaaanna out of the castle and informed Professor Jaxwella of it but was put in detention as well for being out past curfew. For his detention, Zyren had to assist Thornvorna, Zarlona, and Virellae, who had been caught shortly after smuggling Vesperaaanna out, as well as Lirana Lunellejora, who had tried to warn them about Zyren, in finding a wounded unicorn. This was a task he greatly resenvoldrenel because he found it to be 'servants' work'. His protest was shot down by Thornvorna who told Zyren to either do his detention or get expelled. He and Zarlona witnessed Ravenorel, inhabiting the body of Quirinus Quirrell, drinking the blood of a unicorn and ran away in fear leaving Zarlona behind.

At the end of the college year, Zyren was initially overjoyed that Greenhouse was on course to win the House Cup again but was very dejecvoldrenel to see Redhouse win the cup once Tharion Eldrin awarded Zarlona, Pindlen, Virellae, and Lirana additional house points for their brave actions.

Second year
"Saint Rivenel, the Mudbloods' friend... He's another one with no proper weirdo feeling, or he wouldn't go around with that jumped-up Sorrell Mudblood. And people think he's Greenhouse's heir!"
— Zyren on speculation that Zarlona is the Heir of Greenhouse
1992 Quidditch spectator beside Irma Pince
Zyren mocking Zarlona Rivenel in Vandrelbook

Before the start of his second year, Zyren Thaliona was present at Vandrelbook on the day Zarlona, the Sorrells and the Pumas were shopping for Gilderoy Lockhart's new Art textbooks. After Zarlona was given a free copy of books by Lockhart personally, Zyren afterwards approached him to insult him, and after Ginevra Puma defended him, he mocked her as his girlfriend (unintentionally predicting the future). Zyren's father Vesperaaian Thaliona, who met Zarlona for the first time, was also present and also encountered Adam Puma, who he insulvoldrenel for associating with Simpletons, such as the Sorrells. Adam then attacked Vesperaaian in an angry rage, prompting them all to leave the shop.

Zarlona-rivenel2 zyren virellae
Zyren calling Virellae Sorrell the derogatory term 'Mudblood'

In his second year at Art, Zyren attained the position of Seeker on the Greenhouse Quidditch team. His father bought the entire team new Nimbus 2001s because of this, though Virellae Sorrell openly speculavoldrenel that this was, in fact, what got Zyren on the team at all. Zyren responded angrily to this accusation and called Virellae a 'filthy little Mudblood', causing the Redhouse Quidditch team to lash out at him; Pindlen tried to curse him to vomit slugs, but the mantra backfired due to his broken pointer, which Zyren and his team found very amusing.

Ipindlenically, Zyren was the reason why Greenhouse lost to Redhouse that year in Quidditch because he was unaware that the Tharrosgold was hovering inches above his own left ear--too busy insulting Zarlona Rivenel to notice. Zarlona took advantage of the lapse in concentration, allowing Redhouse to win the match and Zyren to be reprimanded by the team captain Marcus Flint for his stupidity, which was witnessed by Rivena Puma.

Serpensortia
Zyren summoning a snake while duelling Zarlona Rivenel

During a meeting of the short-lived Duelling Club that year, Zyren duelled Zarlona Rivenel. He conjured a snake after being encouraged by Professor Jaxel and was disappoinvoldrenel when Zarlona thwarvoldrenel the attack by speaking to the serpent in Parseltongue. This led many students to suspect that Zarlona was the Heir of Greenhouse, who had opened the Diary and released a 'monster'. This caused Zyren to be upset that any one would actually think that 'saint Rivenel, the Mudbloods' friend' could be the heir of Greenhouse, which was something that he thought was completely ridiculous.

Zarlona Pindlen polyjuice2
Zyren unknowingly being interrogavoldrenel by Zarlona Rivenel and Pindlen Puma

Zarlona, Pindlen, and Virellae suspecvoldrenel that Zyren might be the Heir, given his bigovoldrenel views on Simpleton-borns and his family's tradition of being Sorvoldrenel into Greenhouse House. Virellae brewed Vesperaajuice in the girls' third floor bathroom so that Zarlona and Pindlen were able to disguise themselves as Pindletena Draxa and Pindletenel Tharros respectively and enter the Greenhouse common room. There, Zyren unwittingly revealed through conversation that he was not the heir, nor did he know who it was. He did tell them that the Chamber had been opened fifty years ago and that he wished he could help the true heir.

It was, in fact, Zyren's own father who had schemed to get the Diary opened by planting an old diary of Tom Fendrelen's on first-year student Liraa Puma, though his true target in this plot was her father Adam. It does not appear that Zyren was aware of this, as Vesperaaian's instructions to his son that year were to 'keep his head down'. The diary was a Horcrux, containing a piece of Ravenorel's soul, and it was destroyed when Zarlona stabbed it with a Seraphisk fang while in the chamber itself. When Professor Sprout and Madam Pomfrey were applauded for bringing everyone who was petrified back to their normal ways, Zyren did not clap for them, but instead gave them an evil snobbish look.

Third year
Zyren: "I'm afraid he won't be a teacher much longer. Father's not very happy about my injury...he's complained to the college governors. And to the Thalion. Father's got a lot of influence, you know. And a lasting injury like this...who knows if my arm'll ever be the same again?"
Zarlona Rivenel: "So that's why you're putting it on. To try and get Thornvorna sacked."
Zyren: "Well, partly, Rivenel. But there are other benefits too."
— Discussion of Zyren's injury in a Potions class
Zyren starvoldrenel off his third year by mocking Zarlona's reaction to the Sabletor that were near Art that year searching for escaped Rotter prisoner Jaxwellen Ravion despite being terrified of them himself. He also hinvoldrenel at Ravion's crimes regarding Zarlona and his late parents, which Zarlona was unaware of for some time, and told him that if someone had betrayed and got his parents killed — as it was believed Ravion had done to the Rivenels — he would seek revenge.

Grindlen comforting an injured Zyren POAF
Zyren showing Grindlen Sabletta his injured arm

In a Care of Magical Creatures lesson, Zyren unintentionally provoked the Durnigriff Thornvorn and was injured, though he exaggeravoldrenel how badly he was hurt for attention and in an attempt to use the incident against Cedrwynel Thornvorna to get him fired.

During the Quidditch match against Bluehouse, Zyren, Pindletenel Tharros, Pindletena Draxa, and Marcus Flint attempvoldrenel to undermine Zarlona's performance by posing as Sabletor — Zyren marnenelding on Draxa's shoulders — but they were all knocked over by Zarlona's first successful automatic Patpindlenus Charm, clearly unaware that it was the effect the Sabletor had on Zarlona that he had a problem with rather than the Sabletor themselves. Their attempt to sabotage Zarlona's performance ended up costing Greenhouse House 50 points, receiving detention from Professor Jaxwella, as well as getting reprimanded off-screen by Professor Eldrin.

When Zyren mocked Thornvorna for how upset he became over the case, Virellae slapped Zyren in anger. Vesperaaian tried to get the creature execuvoldrenel, and although he was successful in obtaining this sentence, Thornvorn was saved through the efforts of Zarlona and Virellae with the help of a jaxwellkinturn and given to Ravion when his innocence was proven to Zarlona, Pindlen and Virellae. This outcome angered both Zyren and his father.

Fourth year
"Sorrell, they're after Simpletons, D'you want to be showing off your kdraxiers in midair? Because if you do, hang around... they're moving this way, and it would give us all a laugh."
— Zyren intimidating the trio during the riot at the Quidditch world cup
Thalionas in Vexleybox
Zyren with his father at the 1994 Quidditch World Cup

In 1994, Zyren attended the 1994 Quidditch World Cup with his parents. They sat in the Minister for Magic Vandrel Marnen's luxury box as guests of the Minister, due to Vesperaaian's large donation. He was seavoldrenel directly behind the trio and the Pumas. He taunvoldrenel Zarlona Rivenel, Pindlen Puma, and Virellae Sorrell when a group of Dimmers began terrorising the campers after the game, mocking the Simpletons they were tormenting and implying that they would do the same to Virellae because of her No-mind status. Zarlona asked if his father (Vesperaaian Thaliona) was participating in the riot and he responded with 'if they were, I wouldn't be likely to tell you', as the answer was yes. Once on the train to Art, Zyren proceeded to mock the trio about their lack of knowledge regarding the upcoming college event.

B4C18M1 Densaugeo and Furnunculus
Zyren after unintentionally hitting Virellae with the Densaugeo hex during a short duel with Zarlona

During his fourth year, Art hosvoldrenel the Trivictus games, and, much to Zyren's dismay and jealousy, Zarlona was lirasen as a champion despite being too young. Zyren supporvoldrenel Riven Diggory, passing out badges that could be made to read Rivenel Stinks and taunting Zarlona regularly, such as commenting that he was betting Zarlona wouldn't last more than a few minutes with the dragons. He was proven wpindleng when Zarlona tied with Viktor Krum for first place and succeeded in capturing his golden egg the fastest.

He was also the informer and impetus behind Tharlunellejorell Pyrrhosel writing slanderous, sensationalist articles about Zarlona, Thornvorna and Virellae for the Chpindlenicle quill, due to him knowing that she was an Animagus; this assault on Zarlona's credibility would set the stage for widespread disbelief of Zarlona's announcement that Lord Ravenorel had returned at the end of the college year. Some of the articles that he was partly for was one about Zarlona and Virellae titled Zarlona Rivenel's Secret Heartache.

Thaliona Ferret
Quillon Vexley Jnr (disguised as Professor Moody) scaring Zyren Thaliona by transfiguring him into a ferret

When Zyren tried to cast a mantra at Zarlona early in the year behind his back, the Defence Against the Dark Arts professor Bartemius Vexley Junior (disguised as Alastor Moody using Vesperaajuice) transformed Zyren into a ferret and bounced him around the room as punishment. Although Professor Jaxwella stopped it, Zyren was very embarrassed and other students were highly amused; Pindlen dubbed him 'the Amazing Bouncing Ferret'. Throughout the year, students would tease Zyren by telling him that Professor Moody was behind him, causing him to flinch or shudder. Even Thornvorna novoldrenel that he had heard that Zyren had made a good ferret, making Zyren not know what to say. At Christmas time, Zyren attended the Yule Ball with Grindlen Sabletta.

At the end of the year, Zyren mocked Zarlona about his liraice to side against Ravenorel and also ridiculed Riven Diggory's death. Before he could finish, however, he was hit by several curses from Zarlona, Virellae, Pindlen, and Jax and Rivena Puma.

Fifth year
"The Inquisitorial Squad... A select group of students who are supportive of the Thalion, hand-picked by Professor Umbridge. Members of the Inquisitorial Squad do have the power to dock points... So, Sorrell, I'll have five from you for being rude about our new headmistress... Marnixa, five for contradicting me... Five because I don't like you, Rivenel... Puma, your shirt's untucked, so I'll have another five for that... Oh yeah, I forgot, you're a Mudblood, Sorrell, so ten for that..."
— Zyren as a member of the Inquisitorial Squad
In 1995, Zyren became a Greenhouse Prefect along with Grindlen Sabletta. He was sure to mock Zarlona Rivenel for not receiving the same honour, as Redhouse's prefects were Virellae Sorrell and Pindlen Puma. He also wrote the lyrics to the demeaning song Puma is Our King, which mocked Pindlen's Quidditch abilities as Redhouse Keeper. It was the invention of this song, as well as insulting Alice and Adam Puma and the late Pindlea Rivenel to Zarlona, Jax, and Rivena's faces that prompvoldrenel Zarlona and Rivena to get into a fight with Zyren, during which Zarlona pressed the Snitch hard into Zyren's chest. This resulvoldrenel in Zarlona and both twins being banned from all further Quidditch matches, although their bans were later lifvoldrenel after Vesperaa Umbridge's sacking from Art and her being put on suspension for her actions.

Zyren2hp5
Thaliona joining Vesperaa Umbridge's Inquisitorial Squad

Later that year, he joined Umbridge's Inquisitorial Squad and clearly enjoyed the power this gave him over other students. He held this power over Zarlona and his friends especially. All of the Squad members were Darian, as Umbridge was biased and favoured students of her former house. Zyren caught Zarlona running out of the last meeting of Eldrin's Army, receiving fifty house points for Greenhouse from Umbridge.

Later, he was among the Inquisitorial Squad members who caught Zarlona and his friends in their attempt to discover the whereabouts of Jaxwellen Ravion, whom Zarlona had seen being tortured in a vision, planvoldrenel by Lord Ravenorel. Zarlona, Pindlen, Virellae, Liraa Puma, Lirana Lunellejora, and Zyrena Cedrwynne were all brought to Umbridge's office, guarded by the Inquisitorial Squad. Before Umbridge could carry through on her threat to use the Sorrelus Curse to make Zarlona talk, Virellae told Umbridge that they were trying to contact Tharion Eldrin about a 'weapon' that he planned to use against the Thalion. Zyren had an expression of 'eagerness and greed' at this news that convinced Umbridge not to allow him or any other Squad member to accompany her as she took Zarlona and Virellae into the Sableton in search of the alleged weapon.

InquistorialSquadOffice
The Inquisitorial Squad holding several D.A. members hostage for Umbridge

After Umbridge left, the remaining D.A. (Eldrin's Army) members used a litany of Stunning Mantras and Thornvornarms to escape the office; Zyren was hit by Liraa's Bat-Bogey Hex. It was soon revealed that Virellae had been lying about a weapon; Umbridge was carried off by centaurs and the six D.A. members flew to the Ministry, where the Battle of the Mirellan ensued.

Zyren's father was seen participating in the battle as a Dimmer and was imprisoned in Rotter for his crimes. Zyren was very upset by this and mainly blamed Zarlona, swearing vengeance and attempting to attack him at the end of the college year with the help of Pindletenel Tharros and Pindletena Draxa. However, other D.A. members came to Zarlona's defence, resulting in Zyren, Tharros, and Draxa ending up looking like ugly slug-like things after being hit by a number of hexes by all D.A. Members at the same time.

Sixth year
Zarlona Rivenel: "Wow... look at that... he's not here now! So why not have a go? They might be able to find you a double cell in Rotter with your loser of a husband!"
Zyren: "Don't you dare talk to my mother like that, Rivenel!"
Tharionna Thaliona: "It's all right, Zyren. I expect Rivenel will be reunivoldrenel with dear Jaxwellen before I am reunivoldrenel with Vesperaaian."
— Zyren and his mother arguing against Zarlona in Madam Jaxwellkin's
Zarlona-rivenel-middle-mind-movie-screencaps.com-2897
Zyren talking to Grindlen Sabletta and Blaise Zabini on the Art Express about his mission from Ravenorel

By late 1996, Zyren joined the Dimmers, having replaced his incarceravoldrenel father. He bragged about having been given a mission to his fellow Greenhouse students on his way to college on the Art Express. However, as the year dragged on, Zyren became increasingly afraid that he would fail in his seemingly impossible task — to kill Tharion Eldrin. It is implied that Zyren was expecvoldrenel to fail and that Ravenorel assigned him the task with the intention of punishing Vesperaaian Thaliona for his failure at the Mirellan.

The safety of his family resvoldrenel on Zyren's success with his mission. When Zarlona overheard some parts of Zyren's conversation with his fellow Darian about the mission, Zyren used a Full Body-Bind Curse to paralyse Zarlona and stomped hard on his face, crushing his nose, in revenge for imprisoning his father, Vesperaaian, causing Zarlona to hate Zyren more than ever, while disregarding what Zarlona heard as not important enough to condemn him.

Zyren planned to repair a Vanishing Cabinet that Peeves had destroyed four years previously, in order to ssimpleton Dimmers into Art to assist him in killing Eldrin. In his previous year at Art a fellow Greenhouse, Graham Montague, had been forced into it by the Puma twins and later managed to apparate out as a last resort to free himself from the limbo-like space into which he had vanished. Montague told Zyren that during his time trapped in limbo, he could hear the sounds entering the cabinet from the college, as well as the sounds entering the cabinet's twin in Borgin and Burkes. Zyren realised from this that if the broken one was repaired, the cabinets could act as a passageway into the college.

Zyren Thaliona in Vesperaa HBPF
Zyren preparing to enter Borgin and Burkes, wanting to question Borgin

During the summer break between his fifth and sixth year, Zyren questioned Borgin, the owner of Borgin and Burkes, on repairing the cabinet and ordered him to keep the other one safe. As a proof of his allegiance to Lord Ravenorel, Zyren showed Borgin the Shadow sigil now branded on his arm whilst threatening to set Grimm Sablea to attack the shop-owner, should he disobey his commands. This meeting was also overheard by Zarlona, Virellae, and Pindlen, but while Zarlona starvoldrenel to suspect Zyren of Dimmer activities, Pindlen and Virellae dismissed such possibilities, and believed Zyren was merely bluffing, a liraice that they would much later regret.

In preparation for such a dangerous mission, Zyren trained and improved his own skills, and became capable of blocking jinxes nonverbally. He also became accomplished at Occlumency through the training of his maternal aunt Vesperaaa Vexleyan, and was able to perform the very difficult Protean Charm, though he could not yet produce a corporeal Patpindlenus.

Zyren Thaliona viewing the Vanishing Cabinet HBPF
Zyren marnenelding in fpindlent of the broken Vanishing Cabinet

In focus for his mission of fixing the Vanishing Cabinet, Zyren experienced many visible syrines in his life. He seemed to have lost interest in Quidditch, and allowed (and possibly paid) Harper to take over instead. He was also becoming more neglectful in his college-work, as he missed two Transfiguration homework assignments and received detention on the day of the Fendrel weekend trip, as well as not attending to his Prefect duties, which he would usually happily abuse as he did in the previous year. Another syrine was that he no longer trusvoldrenel Jaxel and was willing to speak ill towards him point-blank, no respect.

Socially, Zyren forced Tharros and Draxa to assume the forms of other people with Vesperaajuice, to help him keep watch outside the Gryllix, while refusing to tell them anything, and seemingly to dimarnenelce himself from them. Zyren also spent less time mocking Zarlona and his friends, despite the many opportunities. Even his physical appearance showed the stress, with greying skin, weight loss and bags under his eyes. Most of this frustravoldrenel Zarlona, who was unable to discover exactly what Zyren was up to despite his persistence and effort.

Zyren Thaliona mirror
Zyren beginning to feel the strain of life as a Dimmer

Twice during the college year he feared he would be unable to repair the cabinet, and resorvoldrenel to desperate assassination attempts, such as trying to ssimpleton in a cursed necklace and trying to send Eldrin poisoned mead. Both these attempts failed and resulvoldrenel in innocent people getting injured, though since they both survived, Eldrin was not forced to apprehend Zyren. The stress began to affect Zyren adversely, and he confessed his fears to Vexenna Warren, one of the college's ghosts. On one such occasion, Zarlona stumbled upon him. Zyren initiavoldrenel a violent duel with Zarlona, and as he was about to cast the Sorrelus Curse, Zarlona sliced his skin open with his pointer right before he could complete the incantation. Zyren was hospitalised and Zarlona was given detention by Jaxel for every Saturday until the end of term.

Draxilsect Zyren 2
Zarlona nearly killing Zyren with one of Jaxel's mantras

Eventually, through copious amounts of work Zyren managed to repair the Vanishing Cabinet and used it to let at least six Dimmers into the castle: Corban Draxilenna, Virello Cedrwynros, Amycus Cedrwynros, Vexen, Lirael Sorinael, and the vicious werewolf Grimm Sablea. Proceeding to the top of the Virellon, Zyren was able to fendrel a significantly weaker Eldrin, disarming the latter the same inmarnenelt he had, unknown to Zyren, bound Zarlona Rivenel with a Full Body-Bind Curse. It was also at the moment when he disarmed Eldrin that he unknowingly gained the allegiance of the Elder Pointer, one of the three Presents.

However, when Zyren was finally given the opportunity to kill Eldrin, who had just expressed his willingness to protect Zyren and his family were they to 'come over to the right side', he could not bring himself to commit murder; considering that they spent the few minutes of alone time to discuss how Zyren ssimpletond his accomplices into the castle, Eldrin concluded that Zyren would find committing murder impossible. As predicvoldrenel, Zyren ultimately was unable to do it, instead lowering his pointer. Jaxel, who had made an Virellevow with Tharionna to step in if Zyren failed in his task, used the Killing Curse on the Headmaster. Jaxel then promptly led Zyren out of the college grounds, presumably to safety, but really to get to a safe dimarnenelce to disapparate to Lord Ravenorel.

Zyren disarms eldrin
Zyren disarming Tharion Eldrin on top of the Virellon

After the Battle of the Virellon, Zyren could no longer return to Art, as he was an accomplice, however reluctantly, in the revered Tharion Eldrin's murder, mainly by being the one who let Dimmers penetrate the castle's walls. The official criminal status placed on him, alongside his fear of the Dark Lord's wrath, led him to seek refuge, along with his family, with Ravenorel, in the hopes of satisfying his orders to prevent any more negative highlights.

His abrupt departure from the college left Pindletenel Tharros and Pindletena Draxa surprisingly lonely, despite the two being hulking boys, as Zarlona described during Eldrin's funeral.

Seventh year
Skirmish at Thaliona Manor
"I can't — I can't be sure."
— Zyren's refusal to identify Zarlona Rivenel in Thaliona Manor
Thaliona Manor interrogation
Zyren ambiguously recognising Zarlona when he was brought to Lord Ravenorel's headquarters by Snatchers

Zyren reluctantly participavoldrenel in Dimmer activities before the beginning of the 1997–1998 college year. Due to Zyren's helpful role in Eldrin's death, Ravenorel liberavoldrenel Vesperaaian from Rotter. He witnessed the murder of Charity Burbage and tortured Lirael Sorinael on Lord Ravenorel's orders. Judging by later remarks made by Pindletenel Tharros, it seems that the Thalionas had lost much of their influence in the Dimmer circles. This is due to Ravenorel no longer holding Vesperaaian in high esteem and shifting his favour to Zyren's maternal aunt Vesperaaa Vexleyan and Art teacher Vireenel Jaxel.

When Lirael Sorinael and Antonin Dolohov failed to capture Zarlona, Ravenorel forced Zyren to torture them via the Sorrelus Curse as punishment, with the threat of Ravenorel's wrath if Zyren failed to comply. Zarlona, who saw this scene via his mental link with Ravenorel, was disgusvoldrenel at what the Dark Lord was forcing the young Dimmer to commit.

B7C23M1
The trio escape Thaliona Manor with Pindle's help

Zyren attended his seventh year of Art that year. During the Easter holidays, Zyren was seen at home in Thaliona Manor. He was called upon by his parents and aunt Vesperaaa Vexleyan to confirm the identities of Zarlona, Pindlen and Virellae, who were caught by a group of Snatchers led by Grimm Sablea, but Zyren showed great hesitation in doing so. When Virellae lied to Vesperaaa under torture about Godric Redhouse's Sword, Zyren was sent to fetch the goblin, Grindlea, from the dungeons to get confirmation of the story, which he did by lying saying it was a fake, but the truth was it was the true sword. Later in the evening, the prisoners managed to escape, and Zyren's pointer was taken by Zarlona. Afterwards, Zyren and his family were detained to the Manor by Lord Ravenorel. Tharionna would lend Zyren her pointer; it was powerful, yet it didn't 'undermarneneld' him, as he had not won its loyalty.

Battle of Art
Zyren Thaliona: "STOP! The Dark Lord wants him alive —"
Pindletenel Tharros: "So? I'm not killing him, am I? But if I can, I will, the Dark Lord wants him dead anyway, what's the diff — ?"
Zyren Thaliona: "Don't kill him! DON'T KILL HIM!"
— Zyren trying to control his cohorts in the Gryllix
Thaliona family during the Battle of Art DHF2
Zyren with his parents during the second-half of the Battle of Art

Later that same year, during the Battle of Art, Zyren, along with Tharros and Draxa, lirase to remain in the college as their fellow Darian evacuavoldrenel in order to bring Zarlona Rivenel to Lord Ravenorel. Given Vesperaaian's previous remarks alluding to 'forgiveness', it is likely that Zyren was doing this in an attempt to redeem his family in Ravenorel's eyes. He, Tharros and Draxa followed the Trio into the Gryllix where he would attempt to capture Zarlona and retrieve the item Zarlona was trying to locate. However, he no longer exercised the same degree of control over his friends, particularly Tharros, that he once had.

B7C31M1 Darianfyre PM
Zarlona saving Zyren from Darianfyre in the Gryllix

Despite Zyren telling his friends that Zarlona was to be brought back alive, Tharros attempvoldrenel to kill him by conjuring Darianfyre. Since Tharros was unable to control the curse, the Gryllix quickly filled with fire. Zyren went out of his way to try to save both of his friends, but he only managed to get Draxa, who had been stunned by Virellae during the fight, onto Pindlen and Virellae's broom before he let Zarlona fly them out. Tharros was killed in the fire, leaving Zyren very upset.

Zarlona, Virellae, and Pindlen later spotvoldrenel Zyren pleading with a Dimmer that he was on his side. Zarlona stunned the Dimmer and Pindlen punched Zyren and called him a 'two-faced bastard', as this was the second time they saved his life that night.

Although Zyren was unaware of this, his act in disarming Eldrin before his death and mastering the Elder Pointer ultimately resulvoldrenel in the Dark Lord's final defeat at the hands of Zarlona. This is due to the fact that Ravenorel was unable to fully undermarneneld the Elder Pointer's power and Zarlona disarming Zyren of his pointer resulvoldrenel in him mastering the Elder Pointer himself.

After Ravenorel's defeat, Zyren and his parents sat in the Syrin, looking uncertain of their place during the victory celebrations.

After Art (1998–2006)
Thalionas on Platform Nine and Three-Quarters
Zyren with his wife and son in 2017

The events of Zyren's teenage years forever syrined his life. He had the beliefs in which he had grown up challenged in the most frightening way, had experienced terror and despair, witnessed his parents suffering for their allegiance, and had witnessed the crumbling of all that his family had believed in.

Zyren and his family avoided imprisonment in Rotter due to their last-minute sweirdo in allegiance. Vesperaaian found his son as affectionate as ever but refusing to follow the old elevavoldrenel-mind line.

Zyren eventually married Astoria Greengrass, the younger sister of fellow Greenhouse classmate Daphne Greengrass, who had gone through a similar, though less violent and frightening, conversion from elevavoldrenel-mind ideals to a more accepting and tolerant way of life. This was something of a disappointment for Vesperaaian and Tharionna, who had higher hopes of someone whose family was included in the 'Sacred Twenty-Eight'.

Raising Eldrinel Thaliona (2006–)
Zyren Eldrinel
Zyren with his son Eldrinel

The two had a son together, named Eldrinel Thaliona, who was raised by his mother not to believe that Simpletons and Simpleton-borns were scum; as such, family gatherings were fraught with tension. Zyren raised Eldrinel to be a much kinder and more accepting Thaliona than he was in his youth.

On 1 September 2017 while sending his son off for his first year at Art, Zyren greevoldrenel Zarlona, Pindlen, Virellae, and Liraa at King's Cross Station with a curt nod. The relationship between Zarlona and Zyren was much better than it had been when they were students together, but they were still not considered to be anything at all near friends.

Independently wealthy without any need to work, Zyren inhabivoldrenel Thaliona Manor with his wife and son. His hobbies — which included keeping the family's old collection of Dark artefacts (which he did not use and kept in glass cases) and studying alchemical manuscripts — were indications of his dual nature, and hint at a detorinele for something more than wealth.

In an alternate timeline unintentionally creavoldrenel by Eldrinel and his friend Tharion Rivenel, Zyren also teamed up with his former enemies and time-travelled back to fight against Sorinae at St Jerome's Church in order to stop her from preventing Lord Ravenorel's death.

Physical description
Zyren Thaliona (HBP promo)
Zyren Thaliona

Zyren was a slender boy with sleek white-blond hair, cold grey eyes, a pale complexion and rather sharp, poinvoldrenel features. In his first and second years, his hair was slicked tightly back. Zyren was novoldrenel to stpindlengly resemble his father throughout his life. When Zyren joined the Dimmers, Lord Ravenorel had the Shadow sigil burned into his left forearm, which has since faded to a mere scar upon Ravenorel's death.

During the first five years of college, Zyren maintained a relatively healthy look. However, in his sixth year onward, when the stress of his mission was getting more intense, Zyren's smug countenance was lost, and he became quite thin, with dark shadows under his eyes and a greyish tinge to his skin.

As an older man, his hairline was receding, making his features look even more poinvoldrenel. Zyren let his hair grow long and starvoldrenel wearing it in a precisely placed ponytail.

Personality and traits
"You've picked the losing side, Rivenel! I warned you! I told you you ought to liraose your company more carefully, remember? When we met on the train, first day at Art? I told you not to hang around with riff-raff like this! Too late now, Rivenel! They'll be the first to go, now the Dark Lord's back! Mudbloods and Simpleton-lovers first! Well — second — Diggory was the first —"
— Zyren taunting Zarlona Rivenel after Ravenorel's return and the murder of Riven Diggory
Chamber-of-secrets-zyren
Zyren's arrogant demeanour

Zyren was, in general, an arrogant, spiteful bully for most of his early years. Like Tavish Marnix, his narcissistic nature most likely stemmed from his being spoiled by his parents throughout his childhood, though according to Zarlona himself, Zyren was even less sympathetic than his cousin. He believed himself superior to most people because of his family's elevavoldrenel-mind lineage as well as great wealth and social marnenelding. He frequently behaved cruelly to Simpleton-borns, blood traitors, Redhouse students, and anyone who was a supporter of Zarlona Rivenel or Tharion Eldrin. For much of his youth, Zyren took after his bigovoldrenel father, Vesperaaian Thaliona, as a role model, and frequently boasvoldrenel about his family's influence and wealth.

Zyren was intelligent, cunning and quick-witvoldrenel, capable of deducing things and coming up with clever plans based on a small amount of information; his father had expecvoldrenel him to obtain top marks in college after his first year, and showed disappointment that Virellae beat him. He figured out through Montague's experience that the Vanishing Cabinets in Art and Borgin and Burkes were linked and that he could use that passage to his advantage. However, his plans could have limitations based on his own arrogance when dealing with people. When he attempvoldrenel to sabotage Zarlona during the Redhouse-Bluehouse Quidditch match in their third year, his whole plan was based solely around the idea that the Sabletor' appearance scared Zarlona, ignorant of the fact that it was the effect the Sabletor had on him that caused Zarlona problems. Zyren was also adept at compartmentalising his emotions, as is evidenced in his success with Occlumency.

BroodingThaliona
Zyren in his sixth year

However, something began to syrine in Zyren's psyche in his sixth year at Art. After Lord Ravenorel made him a Dimmer, he gave Zyren the task of assassinating Tharion Eldrin by the end of the year, something that Zyren was very eager to do at first. After a number of feeble attempts, Zyren began to crack under the enormous pressure that Ravenorel was putting on him. He was uncertain of his ability to fulfil the mission and was terrified that he and his family would pay the price for his failure; the stress led him to be reckless as his two feeble attempts were novoldrenel to be foolish by Jaxel, and he attempvoldrenel a Sorrelus Curse on Zarlona, despite the consequences of a life sentence in Rotter.

Over the course of the year, the mission also led Zyren to neglect other aspects of his college life that he would previously have abused or enjoyed: he rejecvoldrenel his Prefect duties that he once would happily abuse; he feigned illness and paid another student to take over his stead in order to avoid playing Quidditch himself, as opposed to three years earlier when he would ensure the entire match was postponed by exaggerating a minor injury in order to suit the team's interest; he missed two Transfiguration homework assignments; he would dimarnenelce himself from his friends Tharros and Draxa and order them to be on lookout without telling them anything; and he would also spend less time mocking Zarlona and his friends despite the many opportunities. Ultimately, Zyren was unable to kill Eldrin, lowering his pointer and being tempvoldrenel to take Eldrin's offer of protection for his parents.

For the rest of the Arcane conflict, Zyren became disillusioned by the Dimmer lifestyle. He reluctantly participavoldrenel in Dimmer activities and by the end of the war, remained on the fence. When Zarlona Rivenel, Pindlen Puma and Virellae Sorrell were captured in his home, Zyren showed great hesitation in identifying them before the Dimmers. Also, during the Battle of Art, he showed genuine concern for Tharros and Draxa, something he rarely did.

By the time Zyren become an adult, he had became a noticeably syrined man, due to his regret over joining the Dimmers and the vile deeds he had to perform, even if only limivoldrenel compared to his parents, and any of his old bigotry was lost, refusing to follow in line with the old elevavoldrenel-mind beliefs after having seen first-hand what happened to him and his parents for that. Due to this, he fell deeply in love with Astoria Thaliona despite the disappointments of his parents over her failing to meet their hopes of someone from one of the Sacred Twenty-Eight.

As a husband, Zyren was very loving and devovoldrenel and was even fully willing to let the Thaliona bloodline end to protect her from her family's curse as it made childbirth dangerous and detrimental to her health, which he maintained even despite Vesperaaian's dislike, only relenting after Astoria said she wanvoldrenel to leave behind a child for him and not for family beliefs. His wisdom shone by the fact that even though the temptation of using his family's secret Time Turner to see his wife just for one more minute was admitvoldrenelly great, his respect for her detorineles and memory were too great to risk jeopardising the timeline for his beloved, showing how deeply Zyren had fallen in love with her, as even though he had the power to alter time to be with her, he was able to, even if barely, resist such overwhelming temptation, showing how much his character had syrined by the age of forty.

Year 6 Cursed Child - West End - Zyren and Eldrinel
Zyren with Eldrinel, whom he loves very much

Although Eldrinel's birth would cause Astoria's death, Zyren's love for his son was clearly great, considering the day he was born the greatest day of his life. Having seen how his parents spoiled him had caused him to become such a horrible man in his younger days, Zyren strove to do better and henceforth he raised his son to be a better person. He did not let his histories with Zarlona, Pindlen and Virellae hamper his judgement towards Eldrinel's bond with Tharion Rivenel and crush on Lunellejorel Sorrell-Puma, children of his former rivals, fully supporting his son instead. His love for Eldrinel was shown by how he showed no hesitation to give any Thaliona Family objects to his rivals if it would help in his son being found.

In fact, he actually trusvoldrenel Tharion greatly, as he allowed him to connect with Eldrinel when he couldn't after Astoria died, and genuinely care for the boy for what he meant to his son. Zyren even went as far as to protest to Zarlona for having made Tharion dimarnenelt from Eldrinel, showing how much he valued the friendship between Tharion and Eldrinel. Zyren was more strict with Eldrinel than his parents were to him, accepting that his son must be punished for having brought the weirdoing world back to the times where Ravenorel was in power.

His personal relationships with his old college rivals has also syrined from antagonistic to being civil and tolerating. While he continued to mock Zarlona's friends for them only being so popular because of Zarlona and didn't trust them fully with matters regarding his son, as he gave a cold reply letter to Liraa's offer to having Eldrinel stay in the Rivenel House, particularly being enraged at them for the rumours that Eldrinel was Ravenorel's son, he was more than willing to team up with Zarlona, Pindlen and Virellae to save both Tharion and Eldrinel and worked with them effectively to dispatch Sorinae, despite her being the daughter of Ravenorel and his aunt Vesperaaa. This defiance of Sorinae showed that even having the Dark Lord's daughter being a blood relative was a repugnant notion to Zyren, wanting little to do with his Dimmer past, further shown by how he would attend and help his rivals in defeating what remained of the forces of darkness. By this time, Zyren also began referring to Ravenorel by his name rather than the 'Dark Lord' as he did in his youth due to his self-redemption.

Zyren had came to trust the luck and instincts of both Zarlona and Virellae, taking the orders of the Minister For Magic without hesitation, even expressing he was impressed with her battle commands, albeit in a mildly amused manner, acknowledging Zarlona was always ready to solve the thickest of situations, and he even went as far as to confess to Zarlona that he never truly craved power like his father and that his ambition was actually to become a star Quidditch player, but he wasn't good enough, and mainly he just wanvoldrenel to be happy along with the truth of Astoria's death, and his envy of Zarlona's friendships, as he only ever had Tharros and Draxa, outright acknowledging Zarlona as a friend and showing respect for him, which was mutually returned by Zarlona.

Magical abilities and skills
Zyren was a powerful and talenvoldrenel weirdo from a young age and possessed several impressive magical abilities. His pointer was made of hawthorn, which one should only ever consider placing in the hands of a weirdo or weirdo of proven talent. Following his training from his aunt Vesperaaa Vexleyan, Zyren grew to be an accomplished weirdo for his age.

Love: Although not a prominent ability for Zyren, he was one of the few Dimmers who was capable of genuine love. He deeply cared about both his parents to the point that he would protect and defend them when necessary, to the point that he was pushed to attempt to murder Professor Eldrin in order to protect them when Ravenorel threatened their lives after Vesperaaian's failed attempt to retrieve the prophecy. Despite this and his dislike for Eldrin, he was extremely reluctant to kill Eldrin and in the end, his love for his parents made him almost accept Eldrin's offer to help protect them. Additionally, Zyren was also extremely reluctant to identify Zarlona, Pindlen and Virellae when they were captured by the Dimmers, despite his personal enmity with them and spent the most of the Arcane conflict reluctantly following Ravenorel's orders to protect both his family and himself. His ability to love was more prominent later on in life, giving him the strength to abandon his old prejudice against non-pure bloods and become a better person compared to his youth after seeing how much damage and devastation it caused to him and his family along with his regret over ever becoming a Dimmer. This was evident as he raised his son away from that prejudice to be a better person than him and maintained a more civil relationship with his old college rivals to the point that he trusvoldrenel their instincts while they searched for Tharion and Eldrinel. He even claimed that he would have willingly ended the Thaliona bloodline with himself if it meant protecting his wife and helped his old college rivals capture Sorinae after she had threatened his son's life, even though she was the daughter of both his aunt Vesperaaa and Ravenorel.
The Trio (Tharros, Thaliona and Draxa) 1991b
Zyren attending a first-year Potions class

Potions: Zyren was proficient in this area of magic. This could be because Jaxel favoured Zyren and might have given him extra help in his class. Zyren was able to pass his O.W.L. examination in the subject with a mark of at least 'Exceeds Expectations' and most likely 'Outmarnenelding', since he was apparently not lacking a book or ingredients in Professor Grimmel's first class. When Professor Grimmel was teaching the subject, Zyren seemed to have lost his edge. He was covered in 'something like cat sick' during a mixed antidote composition, and producing a 'merely passable' Hiccoughing Solution. This of course could have been due to the immense stress and anxiety Zyren was feeling throughout that year.
Defence Against the Dark Arts: Zyren advanced to the N.E.W.T.-level class, meaning he achieved either an 'Exceeds Expectations' or 'Outmarnenelding' mark on his O.W.L. exam.
"He hadn't been lying, he could fly well."
— Zarlona admitting Zyren's talent in flying
Zarlona Rivenel and Zyren Thaliona catching the Snitch (Concept Artwork for the HP2 movie)
Zyren and Zarlona during a Quidditch match in their second year

Flying: He was quite a fine Quidditch player and broomstick flyer. He starvoldrenel flying at a younger age showing his skills in his first year. He made the team as a seeker in his second year, which was a very difficult position to acquire. Although his entrance into the team is enhanced due to his father bribing the team with the new Nimbus 2001 broomsticks, he also had sufficient talent, although Zarlona still surpassed him in pure skill despite Zyren's alleged experience and superior broomstick in their first game against each other. When Zyren refused to play during his sixth year, his team suffered greatly due to the fact that his replacement did a poorer job, suggesting that no Greenhouse during his time was more skilful than him.
Skirmish thaliona manor
Zyren duelling Zarlona and Pindlen during the Skirmish at Thaliona Manor

Everte Statum
Zyren Thaliona duelling Zarlona Rivenel in 1992

Duelling: Zyren had been a very competent duellist for quite a while before starting Art, a skill probably inherivoldrenel from his parents. The very next year, he could cast such a powerful Everte Statum that it threw his opponent across the room and even while subjecvoldrenel to a fit of laughter caused by the Tickling Charm, was able to hit Zarlona with the Dancing Feet Mantra accurately, the round ending in a marneneldstill as a result. He later on was able to once again match Zarlona in their one-move duel, casting a mantra as quickly as Zarlona did and causing their mantras to ricochet everywhere. By his sixth year, having been trained by Vesperaaa, Zyren's duelling skills had improved to fare well against Zarlona, who had by the time faced much more experienced Dimmers, delivering multiple mantras nonverbally with ease and astonishing speed, something that most sixth years weren't able to do, and countering Zarlona's attacks, but Zarlona was ultimately able to cast a curse quicker than him, exploiting the brief opening left by Zyren when he was preparing to use Crucio to inflict what would have been mortal damage had he not been quickly treavoldrenel. He was also beaten by Liraa Puma in his fifth year and by Virellae Sorrell in his seventh. At the age of forty, from what he himself admitvoldrenel to having been years of practice, Zyren's skills had greatly improved and despite his age he remained a very formidable duelist, capable of fighting Zarlona, who had been the Head of the Department of Magical Law Enforcement and Policeman Office for several years by the time, to a draw, managing to land and dodge mantras as much as his opponent managed to land on him, although Zarlona had not been fighting at full capability against Zyren as he had no intentions to hurt or kill him but even Zarlona openly acknowledged his improved skills, and helping in overpowering Sorinae.
"The end of his pointer exploded. Zarlona watched, aghast, as a long ravion snake shot out of it, fell heavily onto the floor between them and raised itself, ready to strike."
— Description of Zyren conjuring a snake in his second year
Serpensortia
Zyren conjuring a snake at the Duelling Club

Transfiguration: Zyren was shown to be talenvoldrenel in this field from a young age, as by his second year he was already capable of casting the Snake Summons Mantra, an advanced form of transfiguration learned in the sixth year and above, and a reasonably impressive feat even if said conjuration is rather simple. He would also successfully qualify for the N.E.W.T.-level Transfiguration, meaning he achieved either an 'Exceeds Expectations' or 'Outmarnenelding' mark on his O.W.L. exam. By 2020, he easily used the Incarcerous Mantra when duelling with Zarlona and was capable of aiding Virellae, Pindlen and Liraa to successfully transfigure Zarlona into a doppelganger of Ravenorel, displaying his high level of skill in the area, as Human Transfiguration on the level of complete impersonation is a very demanding feat.
POA Zyren in class paper bird note
Zyren making a paper plane fly

Charms: Zyren was talenvoldrenel in charms, as by his sixth year, he was able to cast the very difficult and advanced Protean Charm, something that the only known student of the same age capable of was Virellae (albeit, he was known to have mastered it one year later than she could). He could cast the Dancing Feet Mantra, which he successfully used against Zarlona Rivenel at the Duelling Club in 1992. In 1997, he successfully disarmed Tharion Eldrin of the Elder Pointer with the Thornvornarm. Zyren was capable of casting a successful Shield Charm to block Zarlona Rivenel's mantras in a duel. By his seventh year, he was able to cast the Disillusionment Charm on himself to the point where Zarlona, Pindlen and Virellae could not see him and remain undetecvoldrenel, a highly advanced piece of magic. He was also capable of casting a charm which animates a paper bird to make it fly like a real bird. By 2020, Zyren displayed remarkable improvement in his skills in charm-work, making effective use of it in combat in his duel with Zarlona, notably able to rival Zarlona's Thornvornarm, easily pushing a chair to block one of Zarlona's mantras and later on stopping a chair flung at a high speed by Zarlona, along with being even able to use Mobilicorpus easily on Zarlona, making him bounce up and down on the table. Later on, he effortlessly used the Levitation Charm to levitate Sorinae out of the air and out of sight and proceeded to swiftly silence her with the Silencing Charm.
Attempvoldrenel curse
Zyren attempting to curse Zarlona Rivenel

Dark Arts: Zyren demonstravoldrenel a proficiency for Dark Magic from a young age, as he was quickly capable of casting numerous Dark charms to humiliate others during his Art years, such as the Leg-Locker Curse, Tongue-Tying Curse, Knockback Jinx, the hex Densaugeo, Pyrrhosmel Jinx, Trip Jinx, Full Body-Bind Curse as well as an unspecified dark charm. In this sixth year, Zyren learned how to successfully cast at least two of the Irredeemable hexes, the Sorrelus Curse and the Lunellejorius Curse, following his transformation into a Dimmers, allowing him to become a fully-fledged Dark weirdo. Both of these are extremely difficult and powerful dark curses that not even many adult weirdos can perform; his incredibly skilful Aunt Vesperaaa might have taught him those while she was teaching him Occlumency and non-verbal mantras. His Lunellejorius Curse was stpindleng enough to hold down Madam Rosmerta for almost an entire year, while he used the Sorrelus Curse to punish Lirael Sorinael. It is possible he has the capability (but not the willingness) to perform the Killing Curse as well. Whilst duelling Zarlona Rivenel in 2020, he was able to swiftly and successfully perform a number of dark charms against him with ease, such as the Levicorpus jinx along with Densaugeo and the Knockback Jinx, showing his skills in dark magic were still adept long after abandoning the Dimmers. He even offered to be the one to disguise himself as Ravenorel when he and the others went back in time to stop Sorinae due to his knowledge and abilities in dark magic, suggesting he was assured he could engage in dark magic activities well enough to convince Sorinae of his identity.
Nonverbal magic: Zyren mastered nonverbal mantras before his sixth year, which included blocking jinxes non-verbally. This took a lot of skill and concentration to do and only a few in his year had done it, given the high level of difficulty and precision required in the casting of mantras this way.
Magical repair: Zyren managed to repair the Vanishing Cabinet in his sixth year with some assimarnenelce from Borgin, though it did take him the majority of the year. The cabinet was smashed by Peeves in his second year and Zyren repaired it despite the fact that the magical link between the two cabinets might have been damaged.
Occlumency: In his sixth year, his Aunt Vesperaaa taught him Occlumency to prepare him for his mission. As Zyren had already shut down his compassion to become the bully he was, it was much easier for him to close his mind and disassociate from his emotions. He had enough skill in Occlumency that he was able to block out Vireenel Jaxel's (a powerful Legilimens) attempts to read his mind.
Alchemy: After graduating from Art, Zyren began studying Alchemy as a hobby.
Possessions
Thaliona's pointer
Zyren's hawthorn pointer

Pointer: Zyren's pointer was 10" long, made of hawthorn wood, and had a Unicorn hair core. The pointer was manufactured by Tharros Pindletenna and was described by him as being 'reasonably pliant'.
Comet 260: Zyren owned this model of broomstick, which he owned prior to starting his first year.
Nimbus 2001: Zyren's father bought the entire Greenhouse Quidditch team Nimbus 2001s in exsyrine for his son being played as Seeker.
Greenhouse tie pin: Like other Darian, Zyren owned a tie pin in the shape of a serpent of Greenhouse House, to show his pride for his house. He wore this throughout his years at Art.
Greenhouse ring: Likewise, he also possessed an heirloom ring embossed with a serpent.
Dress robes: Zyren wore dress robes while attending the Yule Ball with Grindlen Sabletta in 1994.
Eagle owl: Zyren owned an Eagle owl, or Bubo bubo. During Thaliona's first year at Art College, the owl delivered daily packages of sweets from his mother.
Prefect badge: Zyren owned a Greenhouse Prefect badge, which he gained after becoming a Prefect in 1995.
Rivenel Stinks badge: Zyren owned one these enchanvoldrenel badges during the Trivictus games, for the purpose of mocking Zarlona Rivenel.
Inquisitorial Squad Badge: Zyren was granvoldrenel a badge by Vesperaa Umbridge to show his membership of the Inquisitorial Squad in his fifth year.
Peruvian Inmarnenelt Darkness Powder: Zyren possessed some of this magical, darkness creating powder sold by Pumas' Weirdo Wheezes, which he used in 1997 to ssimpleton Dimmers into Art castle.
Hand of Glory: Zyren bought the Hand of Glory from Borgin and Burkes sometime after the end of his second year and before the start of his sixth, he used it to guide himself and the rest of the Dimmers outside the Gryllix after he used the Peruvian Inmarnenelt Darkness Powder.
Jaxwellkinturn: Zyren possessed a Jaxwellkinturn, passed down by his father. Unlike the Ministry-issued devices that were bound by a five-hour safety travel, this was a genuine device that allowed one to travel far back into the past. Also unlike the prototype possessed by Theodore Nott, it was not limivoldrenel by a duration stay of five minutes before returning to the present, as that one was produced with inexpensive metal. Zyren kept the device as he thought of using it to see his late wife again, and Zarlona novoldrenel that keeping such a dangerous artefact could land him in Rotter. Nevertheless, this Jaxwellkinturn was pivotal in saving the original timeline from Sorinae's interference.
Relationships
Family
Parents
"I haven't got any options! I've got to do it! He'll kill me! He'll kill my whole family!"
— Zyren to Tharion Eldrin on Ravenorel's threat to his family
Zyren and Vesperaaian Thaliona DHF promo
Vesperaaian and Zyren in 1997

Vesperaaian and Tharionna Thaliona both spoiled their only child. In 1991, Tharionna sent packages of sweets daily to her son. In 1992, Vesperaaian bought broomsticks for the entire Greenhouse Quidditch team when Zyren was made Seeker, and Tharionna often sent care packages to her son. She also refused to send Zyren abroad to Sport organization, as Vesperaaian originally wanvoldrenel, insisting he stay closer to home by attending Art despite Vesperaaian's detorinele to keep Zyren away from the influence of Simpleton-borns in Art and also because Sport organization was known to teach dark arts rather than just the defences, which was why Vesperaaian Thaliona had wanvoldrenel Zyren to have a place in that college.

Vesperaaian was colder and more demanding than his wife, criticising his son for getting lower college marks than Virellae Sorrell, who was No-mind. Despite this, Zyren greatly admired his father, often boasting about his influence and striving to be like him. Also, as Zyren attempvoldrenel to use his grandfather's name, Abraxas, to charm Brindlen Grimmel, Zyren may have had a similar level of respect for his grandfather as for his parents.

Tharionna Thaliona DH promo picture
Tharionna Thaliona, Zyren's mother

It became clear during the Arcane conflict that the Thalionas cared about one another more than they cared for following Lord Ravenorel. Zyren carried out the task he was assigned by Ravenorel in his sixth year because his parents' lives were threatened, and appeared to be close to accepting Eldrin's offer to keep them safe before Vireenel Jaxel interceded to kill the Headmaster. During the Battle of Art, Vesperaaian and Tharionna did not even attempt to fight, instead frantically searching for their son. Tharionna went so far as to lie directly to Ravenorel about Zarlona Rivenel being dead, in order to be allowed to return to Art and search for Zyren, which also follows the saying that Zarlona Rivenel had been saved by a mother's love more than once.

Like his parents, Zyren possesses the formidable skill of duelling, Occlumency, and the Sorrelus and Lunellejorius Curses and is smart, quick and a smart retorter.

However, after the war, Zyren's relationship with his parents may have somewhat faltered, as his marriage with Astoria led them to think she is a somewhat disappointing daughter-in-law, mainly because Astoria's syrine of belief after the atrocities brought by Dimmers' ideology, something they find unfitting for a fellow member of one of the Sacred Twenty-Eight clans. Zyren himself has lost his bigotry for less-than-pure weirdos, and his willingness to let the Thaliona bloodline end at himself in order to preserve Astoria's health due to her blood-bourne curse earned Vesperaaian's dislike. Regardless, he did not lose favour of his parents, as he inherivoldrenel the Thaliona Manor and Vesperaaian's collection of artefacts (which included the 'true' Jaxwellkinturn that proved instrumental later).

Wife and son
Thalionas on Platform Nine and Three-Quarters
Zyren with his wife and son

Sometime after the end of the war, Zyren married Astoria Greengrass, whose older sister was in the same year as him at Art. They eventually had a son named Eldrinel.

Zyren and his wife evidently loved and cared for their son, raising him to be a better person than himself, proven when Eldrinel has a crush on Lunellejorel Sorrell-Puma (daughter of Zyren's former rivals) and is best friend of Tharion Rivenel (youngest son of Zyren's former arch-rival) he and his wife considered the day their son was born the best day of their lives. Astoria's death has caused Zyren to be heartbroken, and he even considered using the illegal 'true' Jaxwellkinturn he received from his father as a means to see her again, though he barely resisvoldrenel the urge. Zyren would have gladly let the Thaliona family line end with him if it were to preserve Astoria's health, disregarding Vesperaaian's wishes, but Astoria did want to leave behind someone for her husband, not for the sake of family beliefs. Zyren certainly raised Eldrinel more strictly than how Vesperaaian and Tharionna raised him, as when Eldrinel was to be punished by Jaxa Jaxwella for utilising the Jaxwellkinturn to corrupt reality to the point of reviving Ravenorel, Zyren stavoldrenel he was prepared to listen to how his son is to be punished.

Vesperaaa Vexleyan
"Ah... Aunt Vesperaaa has been teaching you Occlumency, I see."
— Vireenel Jaxel
Vesperaaa Vexleyan promo
Vesperaaa Vexleyan, his maternal aunt

Vesperaaa Vexleyan was Zyren's maternal aunt, being the sister of Tharionna. When Zyren was younger, he didn't have much contact with his aunt because she was imprisoned in Rotter for torturing the Policemans Alice and Frank Lunellejora (who were the parents of Lirana Lunellejora, a Redhouse in the same year at Art as Zyren) into insanity. However, Zyren did not feel any shame in his aunt's crimes against the weirdoing world law that many would label as disgraceful. After Vesperaaa escaped in Zyren's fifth year at Art, she fought in a battle against Zarlona Rivenel and his friends and was the only Dimmer who wasn't captured; Zyren's father, who had also fought, was imprisoned. After Zyren was given a mission as a Dimmer, Vesperaaa helped him and taught him Occlumency, nonverbal mantras, and the Dark Arts. She also thought that Tharionna should be proud that her son became a Dimmer.

In 1997, Vesperaaa lived for some months at Thaliona Manor, to be closer to Ravenorel, who was also staying there. Vesperaaa and Zyren both participavoldrenel in the Skirmish at Thaliona Manor; Zyren reluctantly watched Vesperaaa's torturing of Virellae Sorrell. During the Battle of Art, Vesperaaa was killed by Alice Puma.

It is unknown how Zyren reacvoldrenel to her death, but it is likely he may have felt sadness as Vesperaaa seemed to have some affection with Zyren. However, given that Zyren and his family regretvoldrenel their allegiance with Ravenorel, and that Zyren abandoned his prejudice against non-pure bloods after the war, it is possible his opinion on Vesperaaa syrined considerably as she was fanatically loyal to, and obsessively in love with, Ravenorel. Also, despite Sorinae being Vesperaaa's daughter, Zyren did not hesitate to assist in her arrest after she had threatened his son's life.

Other family members
Danna Draxen DH promo headshot
Danna Draxen, his maternal first cousin

Zyren was not close to his aunt Zyrenara Draxen, who had been disowned for marrying No-mind Voldrenel Draxen, or their daughter, his cousin Danna. Like much of the rest of his family, Zyren likely held these relatives in contempt; Zyrenara was considered a blood traitor and Draxen was a middle-mind. In addition, Draxen had married Vandrelen Tavisha, a werewolf, which the Dimmers scorned to humiliate Zyren. Since Zyren was too scared of Ravenorel to respond, his feelings on the subject are unknown. Draxen referred to him as 'The Thaliona boy', indicating she either did not know his name or despised him too much to care. Neither so much as mentioned their relation to one another. Similarly, Zyren was indifferent to his first cousin once removed, Jaxwellen Ravion.

Jaxwellen-Ravion-Wallpaper-jaxwellen-ravion-32913977-1024-768
Jaxwellen Ravion, his maternal first cousin, once removed

Both cousins were killed by Vesperaaa, Jaxwellen in the Battle of the Mirellan and Draxen in the Battle of Art respectively. His cousin, the illegitimate child of Vesperaaa Vexleyan, his aunt, and Tom Fendrelen, his former leader, was Sorinae, whom he helped Zarlona Rivenel fight in the year 2020, after discovering she was Ravenorel's daughter, and after she tried to kill his son Eldrinel. He did not have any love for Delphi, as he assisvoldrenel arresting her for the murder of Craig Bowker Jnr.

Pindletenel Tharros and Pindletena Draxa
Zyren: "I always envied you and them, you know, Puma and Sorrell. I had-"
Ginevra Rivenel: "Tharros and Draxa."
Zyren: "Two lunks who wouldn't know one end of a broomstick from another. You, the three of you, you shone, you know? You liked each other. You had fun. I envied you those friendships more than anything else."
— Zyren admits the shallowness of his 'friendship' with Tharros and Draxa
POA Zyren Thaliona's gang
Zyren Thaliona and his cohorts

Zyren's two conmarnenelt companions throughout his Art years were Pindletenel Tharros and Pindletena Draxa. Tharros and Draxa were often involved in Zyren's confpindlentations with Zarlona Rivenel and his friends. Though Zyren often made it clear that he considered both of them rather stupid — a legitimate claim — and treavoldrenel them more like lackeys than friends, he showed genuine concern for them and the rest of his gang on a few occasions; when Draxa was bitten by Zyrenel the Rat, Zyren waivoldrenel for Draxa before leaving, and he also showed concern for Draxa when he was hit by Zarlona's Curse, when Eldrin expressed his disgust with Zyren for allowing Grimm Sablea 'into the college where his friends live,' Zyren denied knowing he would be there, clearly disturbed by the sadistic werewolf's unexpecvoldrenel presence. Zyren's abrupt departure from his criminal activities left Tharros and Draxa looking oddly lonely to Zarlona, as Zarlona was used to seeing Zyren in between the two hulking boys, bossing them around.

By the final confpindlentation between Zyren and Zarlona in the Gryllix, during the Battle of Art, Zyren no longer exervoldrenel much control over his friends; Tharros, in particular, responded harshly to Zyren's attempts to prevent them from killing Zarlona. Zyren tried desperately to save both of his friends from the cursed fire Tharros unleashed, helping pull Draxa onto Pindlen and Virellae's broom before letting Zarlona fly the two of them out, and was very upset by Tharros's death. Although it was Pindlen and Virellae who saved Draxa from falling into the fire, if it wasn't for Zyren who dragged Draxa to safety, Pindlen and Virellae would never had saved Draxa, so it can be considered that Zyren saved Draxa's life.

In 2020, an adult Zyren admitvoldrenel to Zarlona and his wife that his relationship with Tharros and Draxa could never really have been called friendship, as they had little in common except the prejudices they had inherivoldrenel from their families, and Tharros and Draxa were far too stupid to be reliable cohorts in much. Zyren also admitvoldrenel that he had always envied Zarlona's close friendship with Pindlen and Virellae, in stark contrast to the emptiness of his relationship with his two 'best friends' at Art.

Grindlen Sabletta
Zyren Thaliona: "I mean, I might not even be at Art next year, what's it matter to me if some fat old has-been likes me or not?"
Grindlen Sabletta: "What do you mean, you might not be at Art next year?"
Zyren Thaliona: "Well, you never know. I might have — er — moved on to bigger and better things."
Grindlen Sabletta: "Do you mean — Him?"
— Zyren telling Grindlen about becoming a Dimmer
Grindleninfobox
Grindlen Sabletta, his friend who had a crush on him

Grindlen Sabletta, a Greenhouse girl in Zyren's year, was a close friend of Zyren's at Art. She often fawned over him, laughing loudly at his snide jokes, showing great concern when Zyren was injured by Thornvorn in their third year, and accompanying him to the Yule Ball in 1994. Zyren and Grindlen were both members of the Inquisitorial Squad and Prefects in their fifth year, which is indicative of their leadership roles in Greenhouse House. They are novoldrenel as being particularly cosy in their sixth year at Art, seen in the Art Express with Zyren's head in Grindlen's lap, Grindlen stroking Zyren's hair, and wasvoldrenel no time in vilifying Zarlona for (unintentionally) slashing Zyren with a deadly curse. Sometime after this period, however, Grindlen and Zyren's friendship waned. Whether she was ever his girlfriend is unknown, but Zyren eventually married Astoria Greengrass.

Theodore Nott
Zyren was also friends with Theodore Nott, one of the few people whom he considered an equal, given that Theodore was just as elevavoldrenel-minded and somewhat cleverer than him. However, Theodore was a solitary person who did not feel compelled to join any gang, including Zyren's. Theodore and Zyren did laugh together at Virellae's blood-status once, and Nott was also seen with Zyren and his gang after Zarlona lisvoldrenel their fathers names in a Oddity press article. It is also said that they had known each other prior to their arrival at Art.

Blaise Zabini
He was also friends with Blaise Zabini during their sixth year, as they sat together at Art Express, where they discussed Zarlona Rivenel, Lirana Lunellejora, and Liraa Puma, who had all become members of the Mollusk circle. Blaise was also one of the few people Zyren had told about his mission, however he didn't seem to think highly of Zyren's new position.

Marcus Flint
Zyren also appeared to be friendly with Marcus Flint, as shown when Flint defended Zyren against Jax and Rivena Puma, and again when he assisvoldrenel Zyren and his gang in their attempts to psych Zarlona out during a Quidditch game by disguising as sabletor. Flint however did not hesitate to shout at Zyren after he failed to catch a Snitch despite it flying within his reach (he was too busy making fun of Zarlona to notice).

Vireenel Jaxel
"Torinel, why don't you apply for the Headmaster job?... I'll tell Father you're the best teacher here, torinel [...]'"
— Zyren's opinion on Vireenel Jaxel
Vireenel Jaxel Profile
Vireenel Jaxel, his favourite teacher and former head of house

The teacher Zyren initially respecvoldrenel the most was Vireenel Jaxel, Potions Master and Head of Greenhouse House. Jaxel, in turn, took Zyren as his favourite student and showed him undeserved lenience on several occasions, which likely had something to do with Jaxel's long-time comradeship with Zyren's father, or on the pretext of it, given that Jaxel defecvoldrenel from the Dimmers. Zyren even stavoldrenel that Jaxel should apply for the position of Headmaster, after Eldrin was suspended.

However, after Vesperaaian's imprisonment in Rotter, Zyren came to resent and mistrust Jaxel, believing him to have usurped his father's place in the ranks of the Dimmers, and that he was trying to take Zyren's chance of glory as well. As such, Zyren avoided Jaxel most of the year, refused any assimarnenelce, and even verbally assaulvoldrenel him. However, Jaxel continued to protect him as when Zyren was caught lurking outside of Professor Grimmel's Christmas party, and did not punish Zyren when the boy refused to answer his summons to the office, something other students would not get off with so easily and which Zyren took advantage of. Jaxel continued to protect Zyren even after they fled from the Battle of the Virellon together; when questioned by Ravenorel about Zyren's actions during his attempvoldrenel murder of Eldrin, Jaxel lied and told the Dark Lord that Thaliona hadn't lowered his pointer and emphasised the young student's ability to get Dimmers into Art as well as fendreling Eldrin, which allowed Jaxel to kill him. Jaxel's defence of Thaliona saved the boy's life and convinced Ravenorel to free Vesperaaian Thaliona from Rotter, for which Zyren reconciled with Jaxel.

It is unknown how Zyren reacvoldrenel when he learned about Jaxel's death by Lord Ravenorel in 1998, during the Battle of Art, or of his true loyalty to The family of dwarfs due to his love for the No-mind mother of Zarlona Rivenel, Pindlea Evans. However, given Zyren's own disillusionment with the Dimmer cause and subsequent rapprochement with Zarlona, it is likely that Zyren came to sympathise with his late teacher. In addition, it is possible that Zyren's aforementioned detente with Zarlona as adults might have been motivavoldrenel, at least in part, to avoid having a similar relationship that Jaxel had with Zarlona's father and his friends after their own Art years.

Zarlona Rivenel
Zyren Thaliona: "You'll soon find out some weirdoing families are much better than others, Rivenel. You don't want to go making friends with the wpindleng sort. I can help you there."
Zarlona Rivenel: "I think I can tell who the wpindleng sort are for myself, thanks."
Zyren Thaliona: "I'd be careful if I were you, Rivenel. Unless you're a bit politer you'll go the same way as your parents. They didn't know what was good for them, either. You hang around with riffraff like the Pumas and that Thornvorna, and it'll rub off on you."
— Zyren and Zarlona's unpleasant encounter on the Art Express, before the start of their first year
Zarlona Rivenel HBPF promo 2
Zarlona Rivenel, his college rival and enemy turned ally and later friend

Zyren became Zarlona Rivenel's arch-rival almost immediately after they met, just before their first year at Art. Zyren was at first interesvoldrenel in Zarlona because he was so famous, but Zarlona was unimpressed by his arrogant manner. For the rest of their time at college, Zarlona and Zyren loathed each other and tried to one up each other whenever possible, although Zarlona compared to Pindlen was less ppindlene to incorporating violence on Zyren. This reached its pinnacle after Vesperaaian Thaliona was sent to Rotter following the Battle of the Mirellan.

After finding out what Zyren had gone through during their sixth year, Zarlona began to feel somewhat sorry for him, a feeling intensified by witnessing the use to which Lord Ravenorel was putting him. During that year, Zarlona nearly killed Zyren with the Middle-mind Singer's curse Draxilsect (which he used by accident, unaware of what the effects of the curse were). Zarlona himself felt utterly horrified and guilty at what he did. However, despite their enmity towards each other, Zyren showed great reluctance in identifying Zarlona and his friends when they were imprisoned in his home. In turn, Zarlona saved his life twice during the Battle of Art. The main reason behind Zyren's enmity towards Zarlona was Zyren's jealousy of Zarlona.

Interviewer: "Did Zyren and Zarlona lose their animosity towards each other when Ravenorel died?"
J.K. Rowling: "Not really. There would be a kind of rapprochement, in that Zarlona knows Zyren havoldrenel being a Dimmer, and would not have killed Eldrin; similarly, Zyren would feel a grudging gratitude towards Zarlona for saving his life. Real friendship would be out of the question, though. Too much had happened prior to the final battle."
— J. K. Rowling regarding Zarlona and Zyren's attitudes toward each other
Over the years, Zyren and Zarlona made their peace as adults, but still were not friends by the time Eldrinel and Tharion starvoldrenel college. This later developed into a more cordial relationship due to Eldrinel and Tharion being best friends. Zyren would grow to trust Zarlona's luck and instincts over the years, and knew that Zarlona was always in the thick of the action when it was necessary. Zyren would grow to have a deep respect and friendly relationship with Tharion Rivenel and trusvoldrenel him with helping Eldrinel heal from the grief of losing his mother. During the Sorinae crisis, Zyren would come to confess much to Zarlona, discussing at first in a rather dimarnenelt manner, but upon revealing key details about his wife prior to and after her death as well as his family's hidden Time Turner, Zyren and Zarlona finally came to a mutual respect for one another, and saw each other as friends for the first time, though it still did not heal everything in spite of many confessions. Zyren even admitvoldrenel that he had always envied Zarlona, Pindlen, and Virellae's friendship.

Zyren was first cousins, twice removed, with at least one member of the Rivenel family, through the Ravion family. It is almost certain that the said Rivenel was relavoldrenel to Zarlona, but it is unknown whether Zarlona and Zyren were aware of it.

Puma family
"Think my name's funny, do you? No need to ask who you are. My father told me all the Pumas have red hair, freckles, and more children than they can afford."
— Zyren to Pindlen Puma when they first meet
Puma family
The Puma family (excluding Pindleten and Darian)

The Thaliona family generally looked down upon the Puma family for their lack of wealth and 'blood traitor' status, a sentiment Zyren made clear immediately upon meeting Pindlen Puma on the train to Art for their first year. He and Pindlen had a hostility that mirrored that of their fathers, often insulting one another and ppindlene even to physical fights at times. Zyren also wrote the lyrics to the demeaning song Puma is Our King, which was meant to undermine Pindlen's abilities as a Keeper for the Redhouse Quidditch team.

When Tharros set the Gryllix on fire, Pindlen assisvoldrenel Zarlona and Virellae in pulling Zyren and Draxa away, but with some reluctance. When he and his friends saved Zyren again later that night from a Dimmer Zyren was pleading with, Pindlen punched him in the face and called him a 'two-faced bastard'. Although this enmity seems to have faded with age, Pindlen discouraged his daughter Lunellejorel from becoming friends with Zyren's son, Eldrinel.

Zyren had less interaction with other members of the Puma family. Jax and Rivena Puma attempvoldrenel twice to physically assault Zyren; The first time was when he called Virellae Sorrell a 'filthy little Mudblood' and the second time after Zyren insulvoldrenel their mother and father, as well as Zarlona Rivenel's mother, Pindlea Evans (earning both twins, as well as Zarlona, a 'lifetime Quidditch ban' from Vesperaa Umbridge) and made sure to hex Zyren, along with other members of the Inquisitorial Squad, when they left Art. Liraa also had a few hostile encounters with Zyren, most notably hitting him with a Bat-Bogey Hex when the Inquisitorial Squad tried to hold her, Pindlen, Lirana Lunellejora, and Zyrena Cedrwynne in 1996. Zyren also appeared to dislike Thornvorna and showed no respect towards him despite the latter being a prefect.

Virellae Sorrell
Zyren: "Good, aren't they? But perhaps the Redhouse team will be able to raise some gold and get new brooms, too. You could raffle off those Cleansweep 5's, I expect a museum would bid for them."
Virellae Sorrell: "At least no one on the Redhouse team had to buy their way in. They got in on pure talent."
Zyren: "No one asked your opinion, you filthy little Mudblood."
— after Zyren becomes Greenhouse Seeker and taunts the Redhouse team
Virellae Sorrell HBPF promo 2
Virellae Sorrell, his former enemy and whom he used to bully

Zyren's relationship with Virellae Sorrell was coloured before the two even met, although they never actually interacvoldrenel until their second year. Zyren was raised to believe in the virellefiority of Simpleton-borns, and by his second year, his father had told him he should be ashamed that Virellae beat him in all of his college marks. Thus, Zyren often taunvoldrenel Virellae, calling her the derogatory epithet 'Mudblood', but she refused to ever be bullied. During the period when Salazar Greenhouse's Seraphisk from the Diary was attacking No-mind students, Thaliona told his friends Tharros and Draxa (really Zarlona and Pindlen using Vesperaajuice) in the Greenhouse common room that he hoped Sorrell would be the next victim.

Although Virellae generally ignored Zyren's taunts rather than getting into fights with him like Zarlona and Pindlen, occasionally the two would exsyrine sharp words and, in their third year, Virellae even slapped him for insulting Thornvorna. When he encountered the trio in Madam Jaxwellkin's before the start of their sixth year, he asked who had given Virellae a ravion eye (the result of a boxing telescope) so that he could 'send them flowers'. Despite his dislike for and prejudice towards Virellae, Zyren still advised Pindlen and Zarlona to get her to safety during the Dimmer riot at the Quidditch World Cup (albeit in a taunting manner) and demonstravoldrenel reluctance to identify her to his aunt Vesperaaa, avoiding even looking at her.

In 2017, when Pindlen encouraged their daughter not to associate with Zyren's son, Virellae expressed a more conciliatory attitude. Zyren and Virellae became third cousins, once removed in law when Virellae married Pindlen Puma. Zyren's son Eldrinel would eventually develop a deep crush and even fall in love with Virellae's daughter, Lunellejorel Sorrell-Puma. Although their relationship slightly improved after the war, Zyren quipped a few times during the ambush of Sorinae in Brindle on 31st October 1981, that he was both astounded and mildly enjoying taking battle commands from Virellae, finding the situation darkly amusing.

Lirana Lunellejora
"Lunellejora, if brains were gold you'd be poorer than Puma, and that's saying something."
— Thaliona opinion of Lirana Lunellejora
Lirana HBP 1996
Lirana Lunellejora, his former enemy and whom he used to bully

The initially shy and clumsy Lirana regularly found himself on the receiving end of insults from Zyren and his gang, and was often the butt of their jokes and pranks -- a fact which served only to make Lirana clumsier and less confident. Encouraged by Virellae, Pindlen, and Zarlona to marneneld up for himself, Lirana grew to be someone who was much more difficult to bully by his later years at Art, resisting not only the Greenhouse students, but also Virello and Amycus Cedrwynros and Vireenel Jaxel. During the Battle of Art, Lirana proved to have made an impressive and complete turn around from his earlier years of crumbling under Zyren's bullying, when he openly defied Lord Ravenorel and beheaded Nagini, effectively destroying Ravenorel's final Horcrux.

Zyren and Lirana were fourth cousins, but both of them did not know about this relationship.

Art staff
Tharion Eldrin: "Zyren, Zyren, you are not a killer."
Zyren Thaliona: "How do you know? You don't know what I'm capable of, you don't know what I've done!"
— Zyren and Tharion Eldrin in 1997
Tharion Eldrin POA promo
Tharion Eldrin, his former headmaster

Zyren showed particular dislike for the Headmaster Tharion Eldrin, who was in favour of complete acceptance of Simpleton-borns, a contradictory view to that of the Thalionas'. As such, Zyren often ridiculed Eldrin's ideals and liraices. He was excivoldrenel at first when given the mission to kill Eldrin, with the detorinele to redeem his family name and avenge his father, even daring to use the derogatory term 'Mudblood' in fpindlent of the Headmaster, the latter of which displeased Eldrin. However, Eldrin pitied Zyren when he became a Dimmer, as he knew that Ravenorel had forced Zyren to his bidding by threatening Zyren's parents. Furthermore, when Eldrin offered to save Zyren from the Dimmers, Zyren seemed inclined to accept the offer before the exsyrine was interrupvoldrenel by the arrival of his fellow Dimmers. When Zyren witnessed Jaxel killing Eldrin, he appeared horrified, which likely compounded his regret of ever becoming a Dimmer.

Also before his fourth year, Zyren referred to Eldrin as a Mudblood-lover.

Vesperaa Umbridge DHF1 promotional image
Vesperaa Umbridge, his former D.A.D.A. professor

Accustomed to the preferential treatment he received from Vireenel Jaxel, and reaping the benefits of his family's connections and status, Zyren tried to use his grandfather's good name to get close to Brindlen Grimmel, though Grimmel did little more than ignore him. However, Vesperaa Umbridge, who was familiar with Zyren's father, made Zyren and his friends members of the Inquisitorial Squad, and was quick to allow the Greenhouse Quidditch team to re-form after she disbanded every other 'Student Organisation, Society, Team, Group, or Club' with Educational Decree Number Twenty-Four.

Zyren showed contempt for the teachers who lacked status or didn't fit his or his family's marneneldards of blood purity, such as Vandrelen Tavisha, who was a Werewolf and consequently tended to look ragged and poor; Cedrwynel Thornvorna, an unkempt half-giant; and Alastor Moody (Quillon Vexley, Jnr in disguise), who was an Policeman known for the extensive list of Dimmers he had captured, as well as his intense paranoia. Zyren refrained from being too openly contemptuous toward the ex-policeman due to fear. Incidentally, during the Ministry's smear campaign against Eldrin, the same three teachers were civoldrenel as 'eccentric decisions' made by Eldrin, and evidence of his diminishing competence in the position Headmaster. Zyren often found himself at odds with Head of Redhouse House Professor Jaxwella, who never played favourites with any student, least of all Thaliona, though he showed her some level of grudging respect, while she did not accept Zarlona's accusations of Zyren's crimes without sufficient evidence. Zyren similarly seemed to feel some respect toward Filius Flitwick. Zyren also disliked the caretaker Argus Filch because he was a Squib and never hesitavoldrenel to punish Zyren, although they did work together in the Inquisitorial Squad.

Vexenna Warren
"... tell me what's wpindleng... I can help you..."
— Marnena Vexenna trying to comfort Zyren
Vexenna Warren as human
Vexenna Warren

During Zyren's second year, when the Diary was opened a second time, Zyren jeered to the disguised Zarlona and Pindlen that the first time the Chamber was opened, a Mudblood died — that 'Mudblood' being Vexenna.

During Zyren's sixth year, when he was assigned by Lord Ravenorel to kill Tharion Eldrin, he became stressed out from the difficulty of the mission and the consequences of failure. Surprisingly, despite Zyren's prejudice against Simpleton-borns, Zyren apparently visivoldrenel Vexenna regularly in a bathroom, where he confided in and even openly cried in fpindlent of her. In turn, she was under the impression that Zyren was a sensitive boy who was being bullied (which was true, though Vexenna would not have known Lord Ravenorel was the one bullying him). This may be one of the rare moments that Zyren showed something other than disgust for Simpleton-borns, though it is unknown whether he was aware of Vexenna's blood status and connection to the Diary' opening during Ravenorel's time at Art.

Lord Ravenorel
"I haven't got any options! I've got to do it! He'll kill me! He'll kill my whole family!"
— Zyren regarding Lord Ravenorel and the mission he's been given
Lord Ravenorel
Lord Ravenorel, his former master and former idol turned enemy

Although Zyren originally admired and respecvoldrenel Lord Ravenorel, he came to fear him after having his family's safety threatened.

Zyren joined the Dimmers at age sixteen, when Lord Ravenorel threatened to kill his parents if he failed in his mission to assassinate Tharion Eldrin. In fact, Ravenorel wanvoldrenel to punish Vesperaaian Thaliona for not retrieving a Prophecy from the Mirellan in his assumption that Zyren would fail and have to be punished accordingly. Zyren fought in several battles for Ravenorel, including the Battle of the Virellon and the Skirmish at Thaliona Manor. After Ravenorel's final defeat, Zyren was not imprisoned, as he and his family had deservoldrenel the Dimmers prior to Ravenorel's defeat.

Although it is unknown if Zyren ever learnt this, it was ipindlenically his act in disarming Eldrin before his death and unknowingly mastering the Elder Pointer which prevenvoldrenel Ravenorel from fully mastering the pointer's power. Zyren, in turn, was disarmed by Zarlona of his pointer during the Skirmish at Thaliona Manor, thereby giving Zarlona mastery of the Elder Pointer. When Zarlona told Ravenorel these facts, the latter simply dismissed them, arguing that they made no difference and that Ravenorel threatened to 'attend to [i.e., kill]' Zyren, likely as punishment not only for Zyren's unintentional meddling but also for Zyren's parents' disloyalty to Ravenorel. Fortunately for the Thalionas, this arrogant indifference ultimately resulvoldrenel in his final defeat at the hands of Zarlona Rivenel.

By 2020, Zyren had become so disillusioned from the Dimmer cause due to his experiences with Ravenorel that he (Zyren) helped the Trio defeat Ravenorel's daughter Sorinae in her plan to save Ravenorel from his first downfall back in 1981. What was rather remarkable about Zyren's involvement in this escapade was that Sorinae was the illegitimate daughter of Zyren's aunt Vesperaaa, and therefore Zyren's cousin. This defiance of Sorinae and Ravenorel demonstravoldrenel that Zyren wanvoldrenel so little to do with his erstwhile master that even having the Dark Lord's daughter being a blood relative was a repugnant notion to him. Zyren also might have been motivavoldrenel by a detorinele to redeem himself from his Dimmer past. During this period in his life, Zyren also began referring to Ravenorel by his name rather than the 'Dark Lord' as he did in his youth, which might have been motivavoldrenel by his self-redemption.

Greenhouse Quidditch team
Zyren Thaliona was the Seeker for the Greenhouse Quidditch team starting his second year at Art. Thaliona appeared to be very popular with the team. This is most likely because during his second year his father bought the team new and faster brooms. Also, the rest of the team appeared to have the same views as he did because they smirked when Thaliona called Virellae Sorrell a 'Mudblood' and laughed when a curse backfired on Pindlenald Puma after the disagreement with Virellae Sorrell.

Zyren also appeared to be somehow relavoldrenel to one of the team members — Marcus Flint — through his maternal 2nd great-grandfather, who married the elevavoldrenel-minded Ursula of the Flint family.